Enabling conditions
Strong national leadership
 mandate, cross-government commitment and durable support from a wider political and social base.
Regular consultation with subnational leaders, sectoral working groups, and clear channels for cities to feed into national planning
Institutional capacity and continuity
, including
 a capable coordinating team, clear roles, and sustained staffing, resources and institutional support over time.
Subnational readiness
, including subnational and city-level 
climate and financial plans, data, and support to develop investable pipelines and integrate climate into budgets
Participation
 of national and multilateral development banks and the private sector t
o 
support through innovative, catalytic and concessional finance. 
 
3.3. 
Intermediary 
C
oordination
, Facilitation
 
and 
A
ccountability 
Function
Overview:
What it is:
 
An intermediary coordination function is a dedicated, trusted unit that helps move multilevel climate commitments from agreement to implementation. It sits between participating institutions and provides shared capacity for analysis, facilitation, strategic alignment, monitoring and learning.
Why is it needed:
 
The implementation of climate projects often spans siloed institutions with different mandates, resources and decision cycles.
 To this end, intermediary
 coordination functions are needed to 
avoid siloes, align mandates and 
help sustain coordination beyond specific projects, programs or funding cycles. They 
also help 
create institutional memory by through by enabling recurring coordination, documentation of processes and feedback loops, enabling strong institutional relationships, accountability and progressively improving multilevel climate governance system. 
Implementation Guidance
:
 
The function
 
implements the following activities
: 
A
lign the mandate of initiatives and policies across governance levels.
 
Lead day-to-day convening of government departments, programs and partners around shared priorities, activities and milestones
Analyse