 structures and enabling support from national governments, DFIs or technical partners
Monitor and evaluate the procurement 
process and
 feed learnings back into subsequent procurement cycles
 to 
shape the market over time. This 
could include
 monitoring emissions, costs, 
resilience-related outcomes, governance or budgetary challenges etc. 
Illustrative 
example
s
: 
First Mover Cities
 Cohort
 is being developed as a dialogue series 
by the 
First Movers Coalition, 
World Economic Forum
. The cohort
 
will bring
 together city representatives, private actors, and other partners to discuss green procurement governance, tender design, and how to turn fragmented demand into clearer market signals. The 
cohort
 is
 engaging
 cities 
such as Stockholm,
 Seattle and
 San Francisco
, drawing
 on examples like Stockholm’s tender-based incentives and Zurich’s material-based mandate to show how procurement rules can shift markets for lower-carbon materials
, bring public and private actors to coordinate as part of a multistakeholder process.
 Click 
here
 to know more about First Mover Coalition.
 
C40 Clean Construction Accelerator
 
shows how city action can move beyond municipal projects and help reshape the wider construction market. 
It 
is an initiative that brings together eight cities to help transform the building and construction industry. 
In the accelerator, mayors commit to reusing and retrofitting existing buildings first, leading by example through municipal procurement, demanding transparency through whole-life carbon assessments, building joint roadmaps with stakeholders, approving at least one net-zero flagship project, assessing resilience impacts, and advocating for action at national and higher levels.
 T
hese commitments translating into practice
 – 
cities are using procurement to push whole-life cycle assessments and low-carbon materials, coordinating across departments, working with private-sector partners such as the North American Electric Construction Coalition, and pressing national governments to remove policy barriers.
Click 
here
 to know more about the Accelerator.