agreement 
and 
f
unding
)
Following the development and launch of the Toolkit, its continued evolution could be supported through ongoing engagement with CHAMP partners, national
, 
subnational 
and city 
governments, and other implementation stakeholders. The scope and frequency of these activities will depend on the agreed governance arrangements, institutional ownership and availability of funding
 (see section 6 above). 
Potential engagement activities may include:
Periodic consultations with CHAMP partners to review Toolkit content, identify emerging Action Pathways, validate implementation guidance, and prioritize future updates. These consultations could be organized through the CHAMP Finance Working Group and relevant partner meetings and events.
Contributions from national and subnational governments, cities and partners, coordinated through the CHAMP Secretariat (e.g. through periodic calls for contributions and/or CHAMP workshops). Contributions could include implementation experiences, case studies, governance innovations, financing approaches and lessons learned to inform future Toolkit upda
tes
Action 5: Mobilize Finance, Shape Local Markets and Deliver Investment Portfolios
This section will include guidance and tools for national, subnational and city governments to mobilize and deploy catalytic funding to test and scale solutions, de-risking mechanisms to support urban climate projects and shape local markets using aggregated procurement.
Systems Logic:
 
Implementing portfolios and pipelines 
often require
s
 interconnected financing, implementation and market-shaping mechanisms operating together as part of a system. Catalytic and de-risking finance mechanisms can help mobilize investment, while systemic portfolio implementation environments and local 
climate 
investment structures
 and collaborative implementation environments
 can support coordinated delivery of investments. 
Procurement
 complements financing by creating credible demand conditions that allow new solutions to move from demonstrations and small-scale deployment toward wider commercial adoption.
 
Action pathways:
5.1. 
Local 
Climate
 Finance 
Vehicles and Catalytic and Derisking Mechanisms
Overview
What it is:
 Local climate finance vehicles can be understood as a range of financing arrangements that help municipalities mobilize and deploy capital for climate and transition investment. This could include pooled municipal borrowing facilities, trust funds, special purpose vehicles for projects requiring off-balance sheet and blended finance, green or sustainability-linked bonds etc.
 Their purpose is to create a local mechanism for cities to mobilize and deploy climate finance from multiple sources, including national governments, donors or private financiers. 
Implementation Guidance
: 
Developing local transition finance structures entails the following process that multilevel actors can utilize:
Build on the climate investment plan and the portfolio, then match each project to the right
 local
 financing structure
.
Use SPVs
 and labelled bonds
 for large infrastructur