momentum behind them
, but 
by the fact that 
their risks are too high or too uncertain for 
private investors
 to engage at scale
. 
Implementation guidance
Working with de-risking and innovative financial mechanisms and tools entails the following 
activities
 that multilevel actors can utilize:
Identify the main financial risks in the climate investment portfolio.
 These may include climate impact uncertainties, political risks, low market readiness, 
currency risks, 
weak enabling environments, revenue risks, high upfront costs of projects, small ticket sizes etc. 
Layer appropriate de-risking tool with the specific portfolio risks.
 For example, credit guarantees could help address revenue or political risks, insurance could de-risk climate impact uncertainties, 
catalytic capital could help to mitigate early-stage 
implementation risks, local currency financing could mitigate foreign exchange risk
,and aggregation
 could help avoid low ticket sizes
 and high upfront costs
.
 
Blend public finance, including concessional public or donor finance or guarantees, with private investment such as loans or equities, to crowd-in private investors.
Integrate these de-risking tools and blended finance approaches within local climate investment structures
, 
with public institutions helping coordinate and de-risk while private capital enters 
once risk is
 acceptable.
While structuring de-risking approaches, have continuous coordination between commercial investors, development institutions and governments to leverage each partner’s comparative advantage and maximize impact.
What is Blended Finance?  
Blended finance is the strategic use of a limited amount of concessional public or philanthropic capital to mobilize additional finance, primarily from commercial and private sources — toward sustainable development and climate goals. Rather than a single financial instrument, it is a structuring approach: public actors (donors, development agencies, philanthropies, and development finance institutions) absorb or share risks that would otherwise deter private investors, improving a project's risk-return profile enough to attract market-rate capital. The concessional capital at the core of a blended structure can take several forms, including grants, concessional debt or equity, guarantees, and other risk-sharing facilities. These de-risking mechanisms matter most in emerging markets and developing economies, where country-specific risk accounts for between 60 and 90 percent of investors' risk considerations, and where about 80–90 percent of climate mitigation investment is expected to come from the private sector. The overarching goal is to crowd in private money that would not have been invested otherwise, deploying only as much public subsidy as is needed to make a project viable. 
Illustrative examples
Viability Fund for Cities 
is a 
donor-led, catalytic, 
multilevel 
funding 
platform designed to help cities
, especially in EMDEs, to 
move from isolated 
projects
 to scalable, investment-ready climate portfolios by linking local investment vehicles with national, regional and international funders.
 
It is built around local investment funds as 
a key 
vehicle for channelling co-finance into city-level priorities
. Th
e Fund provides limited