Strategy: CHAMP Toolkit for Multilevel Climate Governance and FinanceSupporting the ‘CHAMP Investm
ent Pledge’ delivery through guidance on policy reform, governance, investment pipelines, project 
aggregation and financial instruments The CHAMP Toolkit – to be integrated in introduction pageInt
roductionThe Toolkit is designed to support CHAMP-endorsing national governments, cities and subnati
onal governments as well as CHAMP partner organizations in delivering the CHAMP ‘Investment’ ple
dge through stronger multilevel climate governance, finance and implementation. To this end, the Too
lkit will provide practical guidance to implement multilevel climate governance and coordination, im
prove climate-related investment planning, develop investible project pipelines and portfolios, mobi
lize financing and strengthen implementation systems, and scale impact through international partner
ships. In collaboration with the CHAMP secretariat and partner organizations, the Toolkit aims to se
rve as not only a key actionable resource within the CHAMP ecosystem, but also as part of an emergin
g implementation architecture for operationalizing Nationally Determined Contributions (NDCs) throug
h nationally led platforms and multilevel implementation systems.Why is this Toolkit needed and what
 are its objectives? – to be integrated into introduction pageCities face an estimated USD 4.3 tri
llion annual urban climate financing gap to 2030 for mitigation alone. To this end, the Toolkit aims
 to empower CHAMP countries in delivering national climate commitments at the city level – where e
missions and risks are concentrated – by strengthening the multilevel governance and investment sy
stems needed to implement urban climate action and mobilize and redirect finance. More specifically,
 the Toolkit reflects and responds to the following challenges: Although national climate commitment
s, such as NDCs, are increasingly recognizing the role of cities, financing and implementation of ur
ban climate action at sufficient scale and speed remain a challengeLimited coordination between nati
onal and local governments, capacity gaps, and financing challenges continue to hinder the translati
on of urban priorities into investible pipelines and project portfolios at scaleWhile a range of imp
lementation-focused resources and tools exist, they remain fragmented and not easily accessible to n
or actionable for national and subnational governmentsIn response to these challenges, the Toolkit w
ill support CHAMP countries in developing stronger multilevel climate governance, investment and imp
lementation systems. Specifically, the Toolkit will aim to:Strengthen enabling environments for urba
n climate financing and implementation across levels of governmentImprove coordination between natio
nal and subnational governments across investment planning, finance mobilization and implementationS
upport the development of investible project portfolios and pipelines that integrate urban climate p
rioritiesImprove access to financing instruments and mechanisms that help countries and cities in de
livering urban climate project portfolios and infrastructureEnhance access to technical assistance, 
capacity building, and other relevant implementation support through CHAMP partner initiatives and n
etworksPart I: CORE MULTILEVEL GOVERNANCE ACTIONSThe Toolkit is organized around 6 core multilevel g
overnance Actions outlined below. These should not be viewed as standalone stages, but as interconne
cted and iterative components of a broader multilevel climate governance, finance and implementation
 system. Together, they help national, subnational and city governments build the governance, instit
utional and financial capacities required for long-term climate transitions. Successful implementati
on depends not only on finance and project delivery, but also on sustained political commitment, ins
titutional leadership, collaborative relationships, implementation capabilities, learning and shared
 ownership across levels of government. The Action Pathways associated with each Action highlight pr
actical governance, finance and implementation mechanisms that national and subnational governments,
 together with public and private sector partners, can adapt, co-develop and apply across different 
contextsAction 1: Develop Shared Commitments, Political Alignment and OwnershipThis Action includes 
guidance and tools to help national, subnational and city governments to jointly establish shared po
litical commitment, collective ownership and long-term alignment required to support multilevel clim
ate finance and implementation.Systems Logic: Multilevel climate action starts with shared political
 commitment. Joint commitment processes can create a common mission, clarify roles across governance
 levels, and build the mandate, trust and institutional relationships needed for later stages of inv
estment planning, finance mobilization, implementation and learning. In practice, they help move cli
mate action from isolated pledges toward coordinated, network-based governance.Action pathway:1.1 Jo
int Political Commitments, Dialogues and CoalitionsOverviewWhat it is: Joint political commitment di
alogues and coalition mechanisms provide a recurring process through which national, subnational and
 city governments can establish a shared vision, align climate priorities and create long-term coali
tions for coordinated climate action and investment. They help create a collaborative governance arr
angement to clarify institutional roles and responsibilities, aligns actors around a common mission,
 and establishes a shared mandate for implementation of climate projects. Implementation Guidance: J
oint political commitment processes can be implemented through the following actions: Anchor city cl
imate action in a shared mission around which commitments can be made, with cities recognized as the
 core actors in the transition and agencies aligned around the same direction. Build the mandate and
 understand the system. The process starts by creating a strong political mandate and mapping the lo
cal system, so the commitments reflect real conditions rather than generic targets.Develop the commi
tments around climate goals, climate action plan or roadmap and climate investment plan, with the id
ea of committing to shared goals, then moving to a commitment around a potential portfolio of action
s, and to a plan for how the actions will be financed.Build a coalition of multilevel partners shari
ng commitments, including cities, technical partners, national agencies, so the burden of implementa
tion is shared collectively. Review and renew the commitments periodically, as part of an iterative 
process involving local and national governments.Why it is needed: Joint political commitments and c
oalitions establish the governance foundation for subsequent investment planning, finance mobilisati
on, implementation and continuous learning by reducing institutional fragmentation, strengthening ve
rtical policy coherence and fostering collective ownership of climate objectives across multiple lev
els of government. Key actors: City government, national government, local businesses, civil society
, public organizations, universitiesIllustrative examples: The Joint Commitment process of the Clima
te City Contracts (CCC) demonstrates how joint political commitment can be turned into a recurring m
ultilevel governance arrangement rather than a one-off declaration. The contract process is built ar
ound a shared climate-neutrality mission and an annual cycle in which cities, Viable Cities and nati
onal agencies each make commitments, review progress and renew priorities. The city’s role is to g
ather the wider transition arena, which includes a space for collaboration, coordination and dialogu
e among public and private actors who need to help deliver the transition and connect local action t
o national support. The contract itself is structured in three linked parts — climate goals, a roa
dmap or portfolio of actions, and a climate investment plan — so political commitment is tied to i
mplementation planning and financing. Through a joint commitment mechanism, the Climate City Contrac
ts process is designed to work through a broader network of businesses, academia, civil society and 
public organizations, helping shift municipalities from traditional governance toward a more network
-based model. Town Hall COPs are a strong emerging example of how multilevel dialogues and commitmen
ts can help bridge local implementation with national climate strategy and planning.  Launched by IC
LEI Africa in 2025, the format gives local governments and communities a dedicated space to discuss 
climate goals, jointly review progress and identify next steps in line with national plans and globa
l commitments. The Town Halls also bring in national government representatives (with national prese
nce recorded at 60% of events) so local priorities could be heard directly and fed into NDC and NAP 
implementation. By October 2025, 18 Town Hall COPs were convened, engaging over 2000 participants, a
cross six Sub-Saharan African countries. These participants ranged from mayors and national agency o
fficials to the youth and civil society. The dialogues helped develop and surface over 300 local com
mitments. In South Africa, the Department of Forestry, Fisheries and the Environment became the firs
t national government to recognise the model as a platform for inclusive national climate planning a
nd local implementation of the NDC, Building on this endorsement, ICLEI Africa and the South African
 Local Government Association (SALGA) rolled out the Town Halls across the country to enable multile
vel dialogues and subsequent commitments, which feed back into policy, implementation and reporting.
 Click here to know more about the Town Hall COPs. TransferabilityJoint political commitment mechani
sms can be adapted to different governance contexts by:Develop a joint political commitment and dial
ogue process where cities and national agencies have the capacity to coordinate and sustain the comm
itment. In Sweden, the joint commitment process of the Climate City Contracts works because municipa
lities are powerful actors, the process is renewed annually, and the framework can be used to unders
tand governing and supporting processes across local, regional, national and European levels.Where l
ocal capacity is uneven, start with recurring multilevel dialogue, with an ambition to move towards 
a full CCC-like process. The Town Hall COPs in Africa show that a lighter, dialogue-based model can 
still generate commitments, national buy-in and policy inputs feeding into NDCs and NAPs. Allow citi
es to enter at different readiness levels. Structure the process with mandatory commitments for all 
cities and optional commitments that cities can join based on their readiness, as shown by the Trans
ition Arena model. That makes transferability stronger, because it gives countries a common floor wh
ile still allowing different cities to move at different speeds and with different tools.Build from 
pioneer municipalities in context with low readiness levels. In contexts where national coordination
 exists unevenly or is not strong enough to sustain long-term joint commitments, a national governme
nt help build momentum by backing a few municipalities that are already willing to move ahead, then 
help them work as a cluster and share experience.Aligning commitments with existing political and bu
dgeting cycles so that political commitments become part of routine government decision-making. Peri
odic reviews can then be used to update commitments based on implementation progress and emerging po
litical priorities. Embedding regular review and renewal processes to maintain political ownership, 
strengthen accountability and adapt commitments as implementation progresses.Enabling conditionsA sh
ared long-term mission or national strategy that provides a common direction for national and subnat
ional governments while allowing flexibility in local implementation.Political will of both national
 and local leadership, ensuring that political commitments are jointly owned and can be sustained be
yond electoral cycles.Clearly defined institutional roles and responsibilities so that each particip
ating actor understands its contribution and accountability. Recommendations for actors: national go
vernments, cities and international partnersAction 2: Assess Enabling EnvironmentsThis Action will p
rovide foundational assessment tools to identify and improve the policy, fiscal, data and coordinati
on conditions needed for national, subnational and city governments to plan, access and deploy urban
 climate finance. It will help users diagnose barriers to climate investment readiness, including ga
ps in financing architecture, intergovernmental transfers, subnational borrowing, data systems, coor
dination, private finance mobilization and project bankability. System Logic: Multilevel climate inv
estment depends on enabling conditions across data, policy, budget and finance, and coordination. As
sessing enabling environments can therefore help identify and improve the readiness of national, sub
national and city governments to jointly plan investments, implement portfolios and pipelines, mobil
ize finance and build capacities. Enabling environments also shape the ability of private financial 
actors to identify, structure, finance and implement climate investment opportunities.Action pathway
: 2.1. National and subnational enabling environments assessmentsOverview:What it is: Assessment of 
enabling environments helps unpack the conditions that affect urban climate finance in specific nati
onal and subnational contexts. It examines climate policy, budget and finance, climate data, and ver
tical and horizontal coordination, then translates the findings into recommendations, reform priorit
ies and, where relevant, roadmaps or blueprints for follow-up action. The national tool is aimed pri
marily at national officials, while the subnational tool is designed for cities and other subnationa
l governments; the two are meant to be used together where possible so the enabling environment can 
be assessed across levels of government.Implementation Guidance: An assessment of enabling environme
nts at the national or subnational level entail the following activities: Identify key government pa
rtners and define the scope of the assessment, including the relevant government levels and institut
ions.Collect evidence through policy and document review, interviews, focus groups and data inventor
y.Convene multistakeholder workshops to validate findings, fill gaps and test the analysis in contex
t.Translate the results into follow-up actions, including roadmaps or blueprints to address the iden
tified gaps.Why it is needed: Multilevel climate investment depends on enabling conditions being in 
place across data, policy, budget and finance, and coordination — yet these are often weak, uneven
 or invisible to decision-makers, leaving national, subnational and city governments unsure where th
e readiness gaps lie. To this end, enabling environment assessments surface where those conditions f
all short, consolidate them into a comparable readiness profile, and channel the findings into concr
ete reforms, so the diagnostic feeds directly into investment planning, finance mobilisation and imp
lementation rather than remaining a standalone report.Key actors: National and subnational governmen
ts lead the assessment, supported where needed by technical partners, project preparation facilities
, city networks and NGOs.Illustrative examples:National Enabling Framework Conditions (EFC) Tools of
fer a practical way to assess a national government against four key dimensions – policy, budget a
nd finance, climate data, and vertical and horizontal coordination. These categories are further bro
ken down into 16 sub-categories that include 64 assessment dimensions. The dimensions help identify 
priority areas for reform, and the process includes identifying stakeholders, collecting evidence, h
olding consultations, preparing results and identifying follow-up actions. The tool was piloted in I
ndia and Indonesia, making it a strong EMDE reference for how national enabling conditions can be as
sessed and translated into reform.The India pilot (2024) illustrates how the national tool works in 
practice. The pilot was led by GIZ, alongside the Indian Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, the 
National Institute of Urban Affairs and The Energy Research Institute. It included a desk review wit
h seven stakeholder interviews and two roundtables in New Delhi attended by more than 80 participant
s. The findings on the four dimensions included gaps in local institutional mandates, own-source rev
enues and borrowings, city-level climate data and coordination between state and local governments. 
Each gap points to a specific reform — broadening grants from the national finance commission to s
upport climate action, for instance, or issuing city climate action plan guidelines under national m
issions. Another pilot in Indonesia runs the same tool with the national planning ministry (Bappenas
) and pilot cities including Padang and Medan. By feeding directly into partners' capacity-building 
work with government stakeholders rather than sitting as a standalone report, both pilots turn the a
ssessment into an input to reform. Click [here] to know more about the pilots.Subnational Enabling F
ramework Conditions (EFC) Tool mirrors the same logic as that of the national tool, but is adapted f
or a specific city, metropolitan area, state or region depending on context. It is organized around 
49 dimensions in four categories and 13 sub-categories. The tool walks users through a similar workf
low — define the scope, gather evidence through document review and interviews, convene workshops 
to validate findings, and then turn the results into roadmaps or blueprints.TransferabilityThe EFC T
ools provide a standardised approach, but applying them in a new jurisdiction requires tailoring to 
context rather than direct replication:Adapt the assessment methodology to context. Where subnationa
l climate, fiscal and governance data are limited, lean on interviews and policy review — as the I
ndia pilot did with its desk review and seven stakeholder interviews — while reflecting the real i
ntergovernmental relationships in play where mandates are unclear, and calibrating the access-to-fin
ance analysis to the actual depth of local financial systems and intermediation.Deploy the National 
and Subnational Tools together, so a new jurisdiction is assessed as a coherent multilevel system ra
ther than at a single level in isolation, with the national baseline framing the subnational diagnos
is, as in the India and Indonesia pilots.Secure access to stakeholders and source documentation for 
the data-collection, inception and validation steps — the policies, budgets and officials the proc
ess depends on — much as the India pilot used its two New Delhi roundtables to confirm findings.Gr
ound the assessment in government ownership and existing planning and budget cycles, so its recommen
dations are taken up as live reforms; in India, the gaps mapped directly onto instruments already in
 use, such as Central Finance Commission grants and NMSH 2.0, rather than requiring new mechanisms.I
dentify technical partners to run the workshops, interpret the scored dimensions and translate findi
ngs into roadmaps, as GIZ did alongside MoHUA, NIUA and TERI in the India pilot.Enabling conditionsA
vailability of governance, financial and climate-related data, since the depth of accessible data bo
unds what any assessment can conclude, and strengthening subnational climate data is itself one of t
he four EFC dimensions.Institutional capacity and technical assistance to undertake the assessment a
nd interpret findings — frequently a precondition rather than an optional add-on where in-house ca
pacity is limited.Coordination across national ministries, subnational governments and stakeholders,
 which the inception and final workshops are built to secure and which is itself a scored EFC dimens
ion.Political ownership and a mandate to act on findings, so recommendations are taken up rather tha
n shelved — the reason the India pilot convened 80+ stakeholders in policy roundtables.Alignment w
ith existing policy, fiscal and financing frameworks, so reforms can be channelled through intergove
rnmental transfers, finance-commission grants and municipal budgeting rather than through entirely n
ew mechanisms.Action 3: Institutionalize Multilevel Governance Frameworks and National PlatformsThis
 section will include guidance and tools to help national, subnational and city governments to insti
tutionalize long-term multilevel governance by building coordination capabilities, strengthening ins
titutional arrangements and creating the investment and implementation capacities needed to sustain 
climate transitions.Systems Logic: Institutionalizing multilevel climate investment is fundamentally
 about building long-term implementation capacity rather than creating one-off coordination mechanis
ms. Iterative coordination frameworks can help develop governance capabilities across institutions. 
These could be supported by nationally led coordination platforms capable of aligning governance, fi
nancing, project preparation, implementation actors and investment priorities across levels of gover
nment and the private sector, along with intermediary units for day-to-day coordination, monitoring,
 accountability and feedback loops. These arrangements also help strengthen institutional memory, le
adership, trust, learning and feedback loops across organizations.Action pathways:3.1 Overarching, I
terative Coordination MechanismsOverviewWhat it is: An overarching, iterative coordination framework
 provides the institutional architecture through which national, subnational and city governments, t
ogether with financial institutions, infrastructure providers, project developers and other implemen
tation partners, can coordinate climate action and investment over the long term. Implementation Gui
dance: It operates through recurring cycles of joint planning, investment prioritisation, implementa
tion, monitoring and learning, enabling stakeholders to continuously coordinate actions, address imp
lementation barriers and refine priorities as circumstances evolveWhy it is needed: An iterative fra
mework can help build long-term institutional relationships – strengthening implementation capacit
y and creating continuous feedback loops between planning, financing and delivery. Implementing such
 a framework can help governments sustain climate transitions over time, rather than having one-off 
coordination or consultations. Illustrative examples: Climate City Contracts (CCCs) illustrate how a
n overarching, iterative coordination framework can support long-term multilevel climate governance.
 The Climate City Contract is not simply a signed agreement, but an annual governance process throug
h which cities, national government agencies and Viable coordinate climate action by bringing togeth
er public authorities alongside businesses, academia and civil society. The process helps strengthen
 coordination capabilities across governance levels, builds long-term institutional relationships an
d continuously adapts implementation based on experience and emerging prioritiesOther examples from 
CHAMP countries [TBD]Colombia's  Strategic Committee on Cities and Climate Change illustrates how an
 overarching, iterative coordination framework can support long-term multilevel climate governance. 
Co-hosted by the national government and WRI, the committee is not a one-off convening but the insti
tutional architecture through which national authorities, subnational and city governments, and part
ners such as NGOs and funders coordinate climate action and investment over time. It operates throug
h recurring cycles: a biannual forum brings these actors together to review city climate plans for a
lignment with national commitments such as Colombia's updated NDC and long-term strategy (E2050), id
entify active projects and synergies, prioritise high-impact and feasible measures, and connect them
 to enabling mechanisms — for example the Corridor of Climate Financing, a platform led by the Nat
ional Planning Department that links climate projects to funders and provides support. By convening 
the same actors repeatedly rather than through one-off consultations, the framework builds long-term
 institutional relationships, strengthens implementation capacity and creates continuous feedback lo
ops between planning, financing and delivery, helping the country address persistent political, fina
ncial and technical barriers and sustain its climate transition as circumstances evolve.Transferabil
ity:Adapting coordination frameworks and processes to the country's governance systems, enabling cou
ntries and cities to define governance relationships, supporting processes and coordination arrangem
ents that reflect their own institutional context. In centralized systems, a national ministry could
 lead coordination, while decentralized may distribute coordination responsibilities across regional
 or state governments working alongside cities.Building on existing coordination mechanisms, such as
 climate or NDC units, national platforms, subnational climate cells or sectoral coordination bodies
, rather than creating parallel institutions.Applying the coordination mechanisms progressively, whe
re countries with limited institutional capacities may begin with simpler multistakeholder dialogues
 and progressively institutionalize recurring coordination processes as governance capabilities deve
lop.Enabling conditions: Long-term political and institutional leadership to sustain collaboration, 
coordination and implementation across electoral and funding cycles.Clearly defined governance relat
ionships, roles and supporting processes that enable actors across governance levels to coordinate e
ffectively within their own institutional context.Regular coordination forums, learning processes an
d feedback mechanisms that enable actors to share knowledge, coordinate actions and continuously ref
ine implementation.3.2. National PlatformsOverviewWhat it is: In the context of CHAMP, national plat
forms are best understood as nationally owned and led initiatives for long-term coordination and imp
lementation of climate action. Their purpose is to align political leadership, sectoral planning, fi
nance and implementation around a shared national strategy, while creating a dedicated space for sub
national governments, cities, development partners and other actors to work through priorities toget
her. These platforms can be designed to bring urban and subnational priorities into the core of the 
process, so cities are not treated as downstream implementers but as co-shapers of priorities, pipel
ines and delivery arrangements. A useful way to think about them is as an enabling architecture for 
moving from fragmented, project-by-project action to a more programmatic, systemic approach.Implemen
tation Guidance: National coordination platforms can be implemented as part of a phased, iterative p
rocess that moves from whole-of-government ownership and subnational engagement to program readiness
, investment pipeline development, finance mobilization and adaptive implementation. This process co
uld include: Start with whole-of-government ownership and subnational entry points, where national l
eadership sets the mandate, while engagement with cities and regions brings urban priorities into th
e platform.Align sectoral priorities and planning across national and subnational climate goals and 
governance levels. Use the platform to support cities in developing local climate action plans and i
dentifying project pipelines, mobilize technical assistance and enable financier matchmaking. Coordi
nate with financial institutions, including NDBs, MDBs, local commercial institutions and climate fu
nds to channel concessional and innovative financial instruments targeting local and subnational gov
ernmentsLead multi-level and multi-stakeholder dialogues to strengthen local data systems, promote p
eer learning and capacity building, and monitor implementation of programs and projects.Why it is ne
eded: Cities and subnational governments often face misalignment with national climate and developme
nt priorities, limited entry points into decision-making, weak project pipelines, and fiscal and cre
ditworthiness constraints that make climate finance hard to access. To this end, a national platform
 creates a space for local and national actors to align policies, pipelines and finance across level
s of government so urban climate action can move from fragmented projects to a more programmatic del
ivery model.,Illustrative examplesViable Cities demonstrates how a nationally anchored platform can 
turn climate ambition into an ongoing multilevel implementation architecture rather than a one-off c
oordination exercise. In Sweden, Viable Cities works with 48 cities and six government agencies and 
coordinates the country’s participation in CHAMP. Through the Climate City Contract approach, Viab
le Cities helps align municipal commitments with national support, shared learning and implementatio
n capacity. The platform’s value lies in that continuity – it connects local priorities to a nat
ional mission, creates a common framework for collaboration and implementation, and helps keep gover
nance, planning and implementation moving together over time. Click here to know more about Viable C
ities. citiES 2030 is a strong example of a nationally anchored, multilevel and multi-stakeholder co
ordination platform that helps turn climate mission goals into implementation support for cities. It
 brings together cities, public sector actors, private sector partners, academia, civil society and 
citizens, and it works across European, national and local levels within the EU Cities Mission and A
daptation Mission. The platform provides services for learning and capacity building, Climate City C
ontract development, and the implementation of interconnected project portfolios and multi-city coll
aboration. In Spain, that support has helped five cities submit their Climate City Contracts and rec
eive the EU Mission Label, showing how a platform can connect national coordination with concrete ci
ty-level implementation. Click here to know more about citiES 2030Tanzania’s Integrated National F
inancing Framework (INFF) is a useful example to illustrate how a nationally led platform can be ada
pted across levels of government when it is paired with local ownership, iterative strategy-building
 and robust international cooperation for public and private finance. Rolled out on the mainland and
 in Zanzibar, the process aligned financing and development planning, broke silos within the Ministr
y of Finance and Planning, and used pilot dialogues with LGAs to surface locally appropriate financi
ng solutions and bankable projects. INFF has demonstrated visible early results in Tanzania. Zanziba
r’s revenue collection system is now used by 10 of 11 regional administrations, Zanzibar launched 
a USD 450 million sovereign sukuk, Tanga issued a USD 20.5 million water green bond, four SDG-aligne
d corporate bonds totalled USD 380 million, a USD 60 million road infrastructure bond to was issued 
to empower local contractors. Further, Zanzibar’s redesigned SDG Investor Map helped mobilize USD 
5.5 million. Moreover, in coordination with national government via multilevel dialogues, Tanzanian 
cities like Dodoma have started developing their own local frameworks targeting local challenges and
 opportunities, such as improving local revenues. Click here to know more. CCFLA’s Urban-Inclusive
 Country Platforms Framework provides guidance on how a nationally led platform can be designed to s
ystematically integrate cities and other subnational actors into climate finance and implementation 
systems. The framework is built around the barriers that often keep urban priorities out of country 
platforms – misalignment between national and subnational priorities, weak project pipelines, limi
ted fiscal capacity and creditworthiness, and the absence of city-focused instruments – and respon
ds with a phased roadmap from initial engagement to program readiness, investment programming, finan
cing and implementation. Implementing the framework by national governments would allow for regular 
engagement with subnational leaders, inclusion of urban ministries and local representatives in coor
dination structures, support for local climate action plans and project pipelines, aggregation of sm
aller urban projects, and use of concessional, blended and de-risking tools through intermediaries s
uch as national development banks and local financial institutions. Click here to know more about th
e framework. TransferabilityHost the national platform within suitable institutions according to the
 governance context. Depending on the level of decentralization and governance arrangements, the pla
tform may be coordinated by a group public and institutional partners, such as Viable Cities, a mini
stry-led multi-stakeholder platform such as citiES 2030, or a country-led financing framework that i
s designed to work across national and subnational levels, as in Tanzania.Adapt the platform functio
ns and mandates to national priorities and capacities.  Countries can prioritize different functions
, from initial engagement and program readiness to investment planning, financing and implementation
, and adjust the operations of the platform to match their challenges and ambitions.Bring cities int
o the platform through mechanisms that fit the governance system. In settings with high local capaci
ties, city mobilization can be direct, as in Viable Cities’ Climate City Contracts. In less capaci
tated contexts, city mobilization can be routed through national processes while local governments b
uild their own capacities and frameworks over time and continuously engage the national government t
hrough multilevel dialogues, as in Tanzania.Adopt an iterative, learning-by-doing approach where the
 prioritized strategies and initiatives could first be tested before a full roll-out, especially in 
context where institutional capacities are limited, as in Tanzania. Enabling conditionsStrong nation
al leadership mandate, cross-government commitment and durable support from a wider political and so
cial base.Regular consultation with subnational leaders, sectoral working groups, and clear channels
 for cities to feed into national planningInstitutional capacity and continuity, including a capable
 coordinating team, clear roles, and sustained staffing, resources and institutional support over ti
me.Subnational readiness, including subnational and city-level climate and financial plans, data, an
d support to develop investable pipelines and integrate climate into budgetsParticipation of nationa
l and multilateral development banks and the private sector to support through innovative, catalytic
 and concessional finance.  3.3. Intermediary Coordination, Facilitation and Accountability Function
Overview:What it is: An intermediary coordination function is a dedicated, trusted unit that helps m
ove multilevel climate commitments from agreement to implementation. It sits between participating i
nstitutions and provides shared capacity for analysis, facilitation, strategic alignment, monitoring
 and learning.Why is it needed: The implementation of climate projects often spans siloed institutio
ns with different mandates, resources and decision cycles. To this end, intermediary coordination fu
nctions are needed to avoid siloes, align mandates and help sustain coordination beyond specific pro
jects, programs or funding cycles. They also help create institutional memory by through by enabling
 recurring coordination, documentation of processes and feedback loops, enabling strong institutiona
l relationships, accountability and progressively improving multilevel climate governance system. Im
plementation Guidance: The function implements the following activities: Align the mandate of initia
tives and policies across governance levels. Lead day-to-day convening of government departments, pr
ograms and partners around shared priorities, activities and milestonesAnalyse the progress of proje
cts, programs and policies that are coordinated across multilevel actors, to identify gaps and impro
vement needsIdentify local needs and connect them with national agency work and relevant internation
al processesSupport accountability making commitments, progress and gaps more visible through regula
r review, monitoring and coordinated action plansIllustrative examples: Samordningsfunktionen: Swede
n's Samordningsfunktionen (Coordination Function) within the Viable Cities programme demonstrates ho
w a dedicated intermediary unit can strengthen multilevel climate governance by providing continuous
 operational support to the Climate City Contract process. It performs three complementary activitie
s: Analysing Climate City Contracts to identify local and regional needs alongside opportunities to 
accelerate implementation, Facilitating collaboration between cities, national government agencies a
nd other partnersAligning the Climate City Contracts processes with national initiatives and the EU 
cities missions Through these activities, Samordningsfunktionen enables a recurring cycle of analysi
s, joint development, local implementation and renewal, while helping national agencies strengthen t
heir capacity to respond to local transition needs.Other examples from CHAMP countries [TBD]Morocco'
s  4C Maroc (Competence Centre for Climate Change) demonstrates how a dedicated intermediary unit co
nstituted as an independent competence centre — rather than a line directorate within a ministry �
�� can strengthen climate governance by acting as a neutral, multi-stakeholder platform. Formally es
tablished in 2016 as a public-interest group, and with a membership organised into four "colleges" s
panning public institutions and local authorities, the private sector, research and training bodies,
 and civil society, it performs three complementary activities:Strengthening the capacities of natio
nal actors across the climate agenda,Capitalising knowledge on vulnerability, adaptation, mitigation
 and climate finance, and developing decision-support tools such as climate databases and vulnerabil
ity indicators,Convening dialogue and coordination among diverse stakeholders while supporting the n
ational greenhouse-gas monitoring system that underpins Morocco's UNFCCC reporting.Through these act
ivities, 4C Maroc performs the convening, facilitation, capacity-building and monitoring functions o
f an intermediary unit while remaining institutionally distinct from any single ministry, extending 
its reach through regional and pan-African outreach.Transferability: Anchor the function in existing
 institutions and systems, such as a ministry, national agency, climate platform, local-government a
ssociation, city network or research body, and connect it to existing climate, intergovernmental, pl
anning and budget processes rather than creating a parallel institutional structure.Scale its functi
ons to capacity and implementation needs. In lower-capacity contexts, begin with convening, issue tr
acking, documentation and implementation support. Functions such as analysis, governance diagnostics
, policy and finance alignment, monitoring, knowledge management and adaptive learning can be added 
as needs and capacities evolve. Maintaining clear institutional boundaries. The intermediary functio
n should focus on analyses, facilitation and brokering alignment, while governments, financial insti
tutions and delivery organisations retain their formal mandates and decision rights.Enabling conditi
ons: A clear mandate, senior political and institutional sponsorship, and trust from national and su
bnational actors. Dedicated staffing covering facilitation, policy, finance, implementation, data an
alysis and knowledge management.Access to relevant implementation data and decision-makers, supporte
d by common milestones, reporting routines and channels for resolving barriers and institutional fri
ctions unresolved barriersA recurring coordination and learning cycle linked to public planning, bud
geting and implementation processes.Organisational cultures that permit experimentation, reflection 
and adjustment. Action 4: Jointly Prioritize, Plan and Prepare Investment Portfolios This section wi
ll include guidance and tools to support national, subnational and city governments in jointly plann
ing climate investments, preparing projects and developing coordinated urban climate investment pipe
lines.Systems Logic: Climate-related investment planning, portfolio development and project preparat
ion are linked steps in turning shared priorities into investment-ready pipelines. Joint investment 
planning helps identify investments priorities, portfolio development bundles the projects and relat
ed governance, regulatory and policy measures into a coherent package; and project preparation facil
ities then help project pipelines become bankable. Across all of this, coordination, orchestration a
nd technical assistance are what keep the portfolio moving and reduce fragmentation across levels of
 government.Action pathways:4.1. Joint Climate Investment Planning and BudgetingOverviewWhat it is: 
Investment planning and budgeting are complementary activities that provide a recurring process thro
ugh which national, subnational and city governments can translate shared climate goals into investm
ent priorities, sequencing, responsibilities and indicative resource requirements. Joint investment 
planning helps identify which climate investments are required, who is expected to deliver and finan
ce them, when they should occur, and how funding gaps and risks will be addressed. Once the investme
nts are identified and planned, climate budgeting then involves integrating priority projects into o
perating and capital budgets of a municipality or higher levels of government, assigning implementat
ion responsibilities and tracking delivery through the regular budget cycles. When undertaken jointl
y by national, subnational and local governments, these activities can help align local investment n
eeds with national policies, funding programmes and fiscal decisions – strengthening coordinated c
limate action across levels of government.Why it is needed: Climate action plans may often set out a
ctions without a clear understanding of their costs, financing responsibilities or links to regular 
budget decisions, which may contribute to the planning-to-investment gap faced by climate projects. 
Joint climate investment planning and budgeting can therefore help align priorities across levels of
 government, identify financing needs and gaps and embed agreed investments into routine operating a
nd capital budgets so that climate commitments are translated into coordinated implementation.Key ac
tors: National and subnational finance and planning ministries or departments; city finance and sect
or departments; utilities and public agencies; and other private and community actors responsible fo
r funding or delivering priority investments.Implementation guidanceNational, subnational and city g
overnments can work with relevant public, private and community actors through an iterative which in
cludes the following sequenced actions:,,Strengthen understanding of what constitutes a climate inve
stment Embed climate priorities into local plans and project concepts and align them with national c
limate strategies, including NDCs and NAPs, Map existing climate expenditure, including planned proj
ects, available funding sources, institutional roles and financing gaps against climate plans. Devel
op a plan showing which projects can be funded using public budgets and which ones would need to be 
financedAs part of the plan, identify which actors will finance, regulate and deliver each priority 
investment across levels of government.Incorporate the climate investment plan into long-term financ
ial plans of levels of governmentIdentify innovative financing mechanisms and private sector partner
ships to bridge any investment gapsIllustrative examplesClimate City Contracts investment planning a
pproach. The climate investment-planning component of Sweden’s Climate City Contracts involves fou
r key steps: 1) develop a city-level emissions and climate risks baseline and make forecasts, 2) ide
ntify climate actions that could help lower emissions and climate risks, 3) develop an implementatio
n roadmap for identified climate actions and 4) identify which projects will be funded by public bud
gets and where additional financing will be needed; map financing actors and explore innovative fina
ncing mechanisms accordingly. Climate City Contract Investment Plan of the Hague: The city of the Ha
gue has the ambition to be climate-neutral in 2030. The current budget for climate and transition in
itiatives totals EUR 198.1 million for the period 2024-2027. The Climate Investment Plan of the Hagu
e identifies its investment baseline and barriers, cross-references its existing municipal budget wi
th its sectoral climate action priorities, estimates the gap between current allocations and total c
apital needs, and examines stakeholder shares, financing sources, implementation and investment risk
s and delivery arrangements. Its plan therefore connects its climate priorities with both the munici
pal planning and budget cycle and investment beyond the municipality.C40 Climate Budgeting Framework
 (CBF). The CBF helps cities in developing, implementing, and adopting a credible and robust climate
 budgeting process, setting out guidance for the budgeting process and output. It treats climate bu
dgeting as a recurring governance process that connects climate action plan targets to annual or cyc
lical delivery plans, covers both operating and capital budgets, requires ownership by the finance f
unction and cross-departmental teams, assigns implementation responsibilities and embeds monitoring 
and learning into the ordinary budget process. Further guidance by C40 highlights how to get started
 on a robust and credible climate budget. This includes securing political commitments from the city
 leadership and using the climate budget to have multilevel dialogues with the national government t
o support investment into priority projects. Transferability considerationsAdapt to the governance c
ontext. Map where the city planning, budgeting and investment authority sits, and tailor the connect
ions between local, regional and national processes accordingly. In more centralized systems, nation
al or regional finance authorities may lead the investment planning and budgeting process while citi
es may provide locally grounded investment priorities and implementation evidence. Develop progressi
vely and expand the scope over time. Lower-capacity governments can begin with climate-aligned budge
t tagging, a priority investment register, and basic mapping of costs, responsibilities and funding 
gaps. As data and capacity improve, the process can incorporate more advanced investment planning th
at extends beyond municipal assets to utilities, households, businesses and regional or national inf
rastructure.Enabling conditionsSustained political and administrative mandate. National, subnational
 and city leaders must authorise the investment planning and budgeting processes, connect it to agre
ed climate goals and sustain it across annual budget and electoral cycles.Clear roles, responsibilit
ies and decision pathways. Governments need agreement on who identifies, funds, approves, implements
 and monitors investments—including the respective responsibilities of national, subnational and l
ocal authorities and external actors.Integration into existing financial planning and budgeting proc
esses covering both operational and investment responsibilitiesMonitoring, accountability and review
. Responsibilities, expenditure and delivery should be monitored through ordinary budget and operati
onal reporting, with findings used to update priorities, funding assumptions and future budgets.Reco
mmendations for actors: national governments, cities and international partners4.2. Portfolio and Pi
peline DevelopmentOverview:What it is: Portfolio and pipeline development involves translating agree
d climate priorities into a coordinated portfolio of interventions and progressively identifying and
 preparing the investible projects that emerge from it. A portfolio can package projects with enabli
ng policy, governance, procurement, capacity and implementation measures around a common mission, th
rough coordination and aggregation across city, regional and national levels. While not every portfo
lio intervention needs to be investible from the outset, portfolios can generate a pipeline of proje
cts and investment opportunities that can then be prepared for financing. Therefore, portfolios repr
esent a promising approach to crowd in finance and move from investment planning toward implementati
on.Why it is needed: A project-by-project approach is often insufficient to scale climate investment
 and implementation. Countries and cities need a portfolio of interventions, with a pipeline of well
-prepared projects, integrated with enabling regulations, governance functions, procurement, financi
ng and implementation pathways. This can help turn individual initiatives into a well-connected, seq
uenced and bankable package of interventions. This way, a portfolio approach could make the path fro
m concepts to implementation clearer and more visible for financiers and investors. Key actors: Nati
onal and subnational governments, city planning and finance teams, utilities and infrastructure owne
rs, PPFs, financiers and investors, private sector and civil society partners, and an orchestration 
team or intermediary able to hold the portfolio together and keep the process moving. Implementation
 guidance Developing investible portfolios and pipelines entails the following process that multilev
el actors can utilize:  Start with an investment plan that reflects the shared climate mission, goal
s and the types of interventions the governments want to move forward.Group mutually reinforcing int
erventions into a portfolio with a clear theory of change, sequencing logic and responsible multilev
el actors. Enabling regulations, procurement, governance, finance and implementation should be built
 into this portfolio. Building on the investment plans, develop a pipeline of high potential project
s within the portfolio. Assess projects’ technical and financial readiness and develop pipelines a
round projects with the strongest potential for investment, implementation and impact.Connect the em
erging pipeline to project preparation facilities (PPFs) and use related project preparation tools t
o develop an investible pipeline. Bringing PPFs in early can enhance the pipeline’s bankability th
rough tailored technical assistance and investment matchmaking across project stages and sectors.Whe
re common needs emerge across cities, use the pipeline to inform national investment priorities and 
financing programmes. This is particularly important for CHAMP as local portfolios can surface thema
tic opportunities — such as local energy systems — that national governments or agencies can sup
port across several cities.Illustrative examples:System Demonstrators provide a systematic way for g
overnments and funders to move beyond individual projects toward mission-driven urban transition por
tfolios. Rather than starting with a predefined list of projects, participating cities define a shar
ed mission, map the system and structural barriers, convene relevant public, private and civic actor
s, and develop a coordinated portfolio of interventions across areas such as governance, infrastruct
ure, regulation, procurement, finance, behaviour and technology. Not every intervention needs to be 
commercially investible; through implementation and learning, the portfolio can progressively surfac
e projects and wider investment opportunities that are ready to move into project preparation and fi
nancing pipelines. In Lund, for example, a broader energy and mobility portfolio helped identify loc
al energy systems as an emerging investment area, with EnergyNet representing one opportunity for fu
rther financing and implementation. System Demonstrators Grant Calls The grant calls operationalize 
System Demonstrators by setting the funding rules, eligibility and governance for who can apply and 
what they must show at each stage. The grant calls follow a phased approach – cities first apply t
hrough a design stage, then consortia that complete the planning deliverables and meet the readiness
 criteria could access implementation funding. Viability Fund for Cities is now using this logic to 
explore internationally coordinated grant calls with shared principles and eligibility criteria acro
ss regions.To know more about the upcoming System Demonstrators Grant Call, click here. PCVR project
 bank: The Green and Resilient Cities Program project bank is a good pipeline-coordination example b
ecause it was created as a demand-mapping tool with two functions: it gives an ecosystem overview of
 urban project development in Brazil and acts as a coordination platform that consolidates projects 
at different stages into one place, improving visibility and opening pathways to technical assistanc
e, finance and implementation. This makes it a strong example of how a pipeline can be originated, a
nd actors can be coordinated to move the pipeline towards financing and implementation. Find out mor
e about the PCVR here. CCFLA Project Preparation Resource Directory: The Directory helps subnational
 governments and stakeholders identify project preparation facilities that can support them in devel
oping green and resilient infrastructure, including implementing more efficient heating and cooling 
systems, building renewable energy, setting up sustainable transit, or climate-proofing resilient in
frastructure. Users can filter information by region, country, sector, project stage etc. to find th
e right PPFs for their project needs. To access the directory, click here. NDC Partnership - Project
 Preparation Support Database: It is a searchable database of international, regional, national, and
 sub-national Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs) focused on supporting the preparation of climate
-aligned projects, as well as incubators and accelerators focused on supporting climate-aligned busi
nesses. To learn more about this tool, click here.Box: What are Project Preparation Facilities? Pro
ject Preparation Facilities (PPFs) are organizations, initiatives, or institutions that support citi
es in developing bankable, investment-ready projects, typically from a project’s concept, design, 
or scoping stage up to the financial close. A PPF may provide technical and/or financial support. PP
Fs can provide a wide range of support depending on a project’s stage and sector. The overarching 
goal of PPFs is preparing bankable, or investment-ready, projects. A project is bankable, whether fr
om public or private sources, when its risk-return profile meets investors’ criteria. Key criteria
 include the probability of success, sufficient estimated cash flows to cover costs and produce retu
rns that meet investor expectations, and whether the project will be implemented by a creditworthy e
ntity.ICLEI and Gap Fund - Capacity Development Toolkit for Early-Stage Project Preparation: This to
olkit brings together 12 practical tools and templates developed and tested through the Gap Fund Ste
p-Up Project, led by ICLEI with the City Climate Finance Gap Fund. Co-created with cities in Africa 
and South America, it helps city officials, project managers and technical partners identify capacit
y and data gaps, map stakeholders and risks, build basic financial models, test PPP options, apply b
ehavioural and systems-thinking approaches, and chart a path from pre-feasibility to bankability. Ea
ch tool comes with step-by-step guidance and downloadable templates that can be adapted for local us
e and training. To access this toolkit, click here. Urban-Act - Early-Stage City Climate Project Ban
kability Diagnostic Tool: The tool is designed to support cities during the early stages of project 
preparation, from concept to pre-feasibility by applying a project finance lens to improve project v
iability and financeability. It offers tailored checklists across six thematic investment areas to i
dentify bankability gaps and finance-readiness issues, along with practical sector-specific recommen
dations to strengthen project design, financial viability, and access to climate finance. To know mo
re about the tool, click here. SOURCE is a project-preparation software platform. A joint initiative
 of the multilateral development banks coordinated by the not-for-profit Sustainable Infrastructure 
Foundation, SOURCE uses standardised, sector-specific question sets covering the full project lifecy
cle—aligned with the SDGs and the Paris Agreement—to help governments define, develop and manage
 sustainable infrastructure projects consistently and transparently, with the aim of improving banka
bility, crowding in private finance and strengthening public-sector capacity. Its functionality incl
udes portfolio and project monitoring dashboards, document and task management, consistency checks, 
a Project Preparation Facilities Finder and a public pipeline for project promotion, and it is used 
in more than 50 countries, including many CHAMP endorsers. The case demonstrates how a shared digita
l tool can standardise and de-risk project preparation across governments while linking prepared pro
jects to preparation facilities and financiers. To access SOURCE, click here. Findeter’s Sustainab
le and Competitive Cities Program provides technical assistance and funding to small and intermediar
y cities in Colombia to prepare long-term roadmaps to develop and access financing for infrastructur
e and service projects. The program has supported the diagnostic and structuring phases of projects 
such as Fusagasugá’s public-lighting modernisation, helping lower preparation and financing risk 
before investment is mobilized. Findeter’s facility is used predominantly by intermediary cities. 
As a GCF-accredited entity, Findeter has a national footprint of 2,220 financed projects across 773 
municipalities and 30 departments, demonstrating how a national intermediary can help crowd in capit
al for subnational climate investment at scale. To know more about Findeter, click here. Transferabi
lity considerationsTailor portfolio development to the national climate priorities and implementatio
n capacities. Cities with relatively less capacities can start with mapping key actors, identifying 
and aligning projects with national priorities, and engaging with key actors, such as PPFs, then mov
e to portfolio development and governance once the actors are involved and enabling conditions are m
ature. Different lead institutions can host the portfolio and pipeline development. Depending on the
 governance setup, portfolio development and coordination role can sit within a national program or 
agency, regional authority, a multistakeholder body of local governments or external partners, such 
as city networks. The key is having sufficient mandate and convening power to continually develop an
d implement the portfolio. Portfolio funding models can vary. Some contexts will need a donor-led or
 grant-led portfolio development, while others with higher levels of fiscal capacity can use city-le
d, national-led or blended funding arrangements. The key is having funding that is sufficient to dev
elop the portfolio from planning to investment readiness. Tailor outreach to PPFs to match sector pr
iorities, country context and pipeline maturity, so early-stage projects are steered toward diagnost
ics and concept development, while more advanced pipelines are matched with structuring, de-risking 
and investment-readiness support.Enabling conditions: A clear mission, mandate and a coordination fu
nction. The portfolio needs a national-level mandate (e.g., through a national mission), alongside c
lear roles across levels of government and an intermediary team or similar coordination function to 
keep actors, including governments, project developers and financiers coordinated, track progress an
d revise the portfolio as conditions change.National-local coordination mechanisms that allow city-l
evel priorities and lessons to feed into national policy, investment programmes and funding decision
s.An investment plan or preliminary pipeline to work from, so the portfolio is built from agreed cli
mate priorities across levels of government, rather than from siloed projects.Early engagement with 
project preparation facilities, so that the portfolio and pipeline are prepared for bankability from
 the outset. Reliable data and assessment capacity. Governments need sufficient data and technical c
apacity to identify projects across levels of government, assess readiness, identify gaps and struct
ure a coherent theory of change across the portfolio.Action 5: Mobilize Finance, Shape Local Markets
 and Deliver Investment PortfoliosThis section will include guidance and tools for national, subnati
onal and city governments to mobilize and deploy catalytic funding to test and scale solutions, de-r
isking mechanisms to support urban climate projects and shape local markets using aggregated procure
ment.Systems Logic: Implementing portfolios and pipelines often requires interconnected financing, i
mplementation and market-shaping mechanisms operating together as part of a system. Catalytic and de
-risking finance mechanisms can help mobilize investment, while systemic portfolio implementation en
vironments and local climate investment structures and collaborative implementation environments can
 support coordinated delivery of investments. Procurement complements financing by creating credible
 demand conditions that allow new solutions to move from demonstrations and small-scale deployment t
oward wider commercial adoption. Action pathways:5.1. Locally Anchored Multilevel Climate Finance St
ructuresOverviewWhat it is: Multilevel climate finance structures can be understood as a range of fi
nancing arrangements that help municipalities mobilize and deploy capital for climate and transition
 investment, in collaboration with other levels of government and the private sector. This could inc
lude pooled municipal borrowing facilities, trust funds, special purpose vehicles for projects requi
ring off-balance sheet financing, blended finance arrangements etc. Their purpose is to create a loc
al mechanism for cities to mobilize and deploy climate finance from diverse sources, including natio
nal governments, donors or private financiers. Why it is important: In many contexts, the challenge 
in implementing local climate investments is often not a shortage of capital but matching it to the 
right portfolio. These finance vehicles and mechanisms can help bridge this gap by connecting portfo
lios with available capital and can take different forms depending on local government capacity, gov
ernance and market conditions.Key actors: City and subnational governments, national governments and
 agencies, public and national development banks, municipal finance institutions, commercial banks, 
institutional and private investors, donors and philanthropic actors, fund or vehicle managers/inter
mediaries, corporates and community stakeholders.Implementation guidanceDeveloping local transition 
finance structures entails the following process that multilevel actors can utilize:Build on the cli
mate investment plan and the portfolio, then match each project to the right local financing structu
re. Large infrastructure may be placed in SPVs or bond-financed vehicles; smaller neighbourhood or n
ature-based projects may use trust funds or other pooled local vehicles; catalytic capital, guarante
es and concessional support can then sit alongside these structures to reduce risk and crowd in larg
er pools of finance.Arrange the financing structure in a way that the government backs the investmen
t, while banks, institutional investors, corporates or other investors provide the finance and techn
ical assistance and additional de-risking where needed. Develop long-term partnerships with donors, 
governments, DFIs and investors to continually capitalize the investment vehicle/structure based on 
the risks, returns and investor appetite.Illustrative examplesKenya’s County Climate Change Funds 
(CCCFs) demonstrate how devolved climate finance can enable locally led adaptation while remaining a
nchored in national policy. CCCFs were piloted in Isiolo in 2011–12 and later expanded to Garissa,
 Kitui, Makueni, Wajir and beyond. These funds identify, prioritize and finance local adaptation inv
estments through county planning and budgeting systems, with county and ward committees steering dec
isions and local knowledge and climate information built into planning and monitoring. They are desi
gned to blend resources from international climate finance, multilateral development banks, the priv
ate sector, national government transfers and county own-source budgets, and several counties have l
egislated commitments of 1–2 per cent of development budgets to capitalise the fund. This domestic
 commitment helped attract external finance, including seed funding from the UK and Sweden and a pro
posal to the Green Climate Fund to expand the model. The model is aligned with Kenya’s National Ad
aptation Plan (NAP), the National Climate Change Action Plan, and the Climate Change Act. The succes
s of pilots helped pave the way for national scale-up – by 2023 all 47 Kenyan counties had CCCFs i
n place, creating the basis for a new Financing Locally-Led Climate Action Program funded by the Wor
ld Bank and the governments of Denmark and Sweden, and led by the National Treasury.Milan for Trees 
Fund is a locally led trust fund managed by the municipality of Milan and is dedicated to tree plant
ing in the city. The fund is capitalized through a blend of municipal tax revenues, individual contr
ibutions and larger corporate donations. The money is held off the municipal balance sheet, and the 
fund allows tree planting to extend beyond public land. In 2024, 600 citizens and 36 local business 
participated to raise over EUR 1.3 million to plant over 4700 trees. It is a good example of how a c
ity can lead local multi-stakeholder partnerships, bringing in private capital to fund place-based c
limate action. The city of Lund in Sweden is also planning to replicate this model to accelerate mun
icipal tree planting, which will not only improve local climatic conditions but also provide additio
nal economic value to businesses through place-based improvements. Bristol has developed two key loc
al funds focused on climate and energy, with a strong emphasis at community-level impact: First is t
he Bristol Climate Action Investment – developed as part of its Net Zero Investment Co-Innovation 
Lab, funded by the EU Net Zero Cities – where investments as little as GBP 5 can be made by busine
sses, residents and communities. By 2025, the fund raised over GBP 500,000 in its first five weeks t
oward an initial GBP 1 million target. The investments are set up as a five-year loan offering 4.2% 
interest to finance energy-efficiency and renewable upgrades in council-owned buildings. Click here 
to know more., Second is the Bristol City Leap Community Energy Fund – a GBP 1.5 million, grant-an
d-loan facility backed by contributions of GBP 750,000 each by Ameresco and Vattenfall, aimed at com
munity-led energy projects, with any profits recycled back into the fund. This fund aims at reducing
 the use of fossil fuels and supporting local communities to reduce their energy consumption. Click 
here to know more.LoCAL is a country-based mechanism spearheaded by the UN Capital Development Fund 
(UNCDF) It helps local governments integrate climate adaptation into planning and budgeting through 
performance-based climate resilience grants and technical and capacity-building support. It channels
 climate finance to local governments through existing national fiscal transfer systems. In practice
, local governments assess risks and needs, prepare adaptation plans, identify and budget priority m
easures, and implement them through their annual budgeting cycles; performance reviews and audits th
en inform future allocations. LoCAL is designed to scale in phases, moving from piloting to learning
 and then to full national roll-out, which makes it a strong example of a multilevel local climate f
inance structure embedded in national systems. Since 2011, LoCAL has provided USD 8.3 million in gra
nts to 64 local governments, impacting over 5 million people across 12 countries in Asia (Bangladesh
, Bhutan, Cambodia, Lao PDR and Nepal), the Pacific (Tuvalu) and Africa (Benin, Ghana, Mali, Mozambi
que, Niger and Tanzania). Tamil Nadu Water and Sanitation Pooled Fund illustrates how a dedicated sp
ecial purpose vehicle can connect municipal projects with state, national and private finance. Estab
lished by the Government of Tamil Nadu as a separate trust, the Fund pooled the borrowing needs of 1
3 small and medium-sized municipalities and issued a single bond to raise long-term capital for wate
r and sanitation investments. Participating municipalities repaid the Fund through project and local
 revenues, while the state government strengthened the structure through reserve funds and the abili
ty to intercept fiscal transfers if repayments fell short; a USAID partial guarantee provided additi
onal protection to investors.  By ring-fencing the financing and repayment arrangements, the SPV spr
ead risk, reduced transaction costs and enabled municipalities that could not issue bonds independen
tly to access capital markets. The national government subsequently embedded this approach in its na
tional Pooled Finance Development Fund, through which the central government supports state-level po
oled finance entities with project-preparation assistance and credit enhancement. The case shows how
 national and state governments can establish an intermediary SPV that aggregates local investment n
eeds and mobilizes private capital while municipalities retain responsibility for project delivery a
nd repayment.Lund’s green bond programme is a strong example of a local climate finance structure 
because it shows how a city can translate climate priorities into a municipally anchored investment 
vehicle. Lund began issuing green bonds in 2017, and by end-2025 had an outstanding green bond volum
e of USD 450 million. Lund municipality updated its green bonds framework, incorporating elements fr
om the EU Taxonomy for sustainable investments, broadening the range of eligible projects. The frame
work also sets up how projects are selected, monitored and reported, and is used to connect investme
nt planning with climate and sustainability goals while improving transparency and accountability to
 investors. The portfolio spans climate-smart infrastructure and buildings across the municipality a
nd its wholly owned housing, parking and water utility companies, with examples such as the Lund tra
mway and the LKF housing project showing how the bond framework channels finance into a tracked gree
n portfolio of approved projects.Transferability considerationsTailor the financing structure to the
 local fiscal system, borrowing regulations, tax base and market maturity: where decentralization an
d private-sector depth are stronger, local trust funds or similar vehicles may work well; where resp
onsibilities are devolved but fiscal space is limited, devolved funds may be a better fit; and in mo
re unitary systems, country- or donor-led funds, like the Viability Fund or LoCAL program, may need 
to be channelled through existing fiscal transfer mechanisms. In context where local governments hav
e creditworthiness, a green bond framework like Lund could be utilized. When setting up a climate in
vestment fund, start with a focused investment portfolio, aligned with national priorities and plans
, so that investor confidence improves and external finance could be mobilized. Carefully structure 
SPVs for project financing and implementation. SPVs are legally complex and expensive downscaling to
 smaller projects requires careful packaging and de-risking for banks and commercial investors to pa
rticipate.Regardless of where the fund gets anchored, enable local planning control while bringing i
n external capital through multilevel partnerships, so finance supports locally defined and locally 
led climate priorities.Enabling conditionsCredible leadership, commitment and capacities at various 
levels of government to structure and manage the climate investment vehicles, or access to an interm
ediary manager, such as Bristol’s Net Zero Investment Co-Innovation Lab or Tamil Nadu’s subnatio
nal government, to support local governments in setting up and managing such funds. Local alignment 
with national plans, national platforms and coordination with national institutions for long-term su
stainability and ownershipMultilevel partnerships with donors, corporates, individuals, DFIs or nati
onal governments to mobilize finance or credible intermediary to hold this mandate, manage these par
tnerships and channel finance to local investment vehicles. 5.2. Innovative and De-risking Financial
 Tools and MechanismsOverview: What it is: De-risking financial tools and mechanisms reduce implemen
tation and investment risk while helping mobilize larger pools of public and private capital. This c
ould include concessional finance, guarantees, insurance and blended-finance mechanisms to crowd in 
investment, strengthen investor confidence and accelerate delivery of priority climate investments. 
They work best when linked to strong governance, project portfolios and local investment structures.
 Key actors: national, subnational or local governments, MDBs, DFIs, NDBs, donors, guarantee provide
rs, insurance providers, blended finance facilities, commercial banks, institutional investors and f
inancial intermediaries.Why it is important: Utilizing innovative and de-risking tools and mechanism
s is crucial to mitigate perceived high risks and uncertainties for the investors. Many climate inve
stments at the subnational or local level may be held back not by a lack of ambition, institutional 
arrangements or political momentum behind them, but by the fact that their risks are too high or too
 uncertain for private investors to engage at scale. Implementation guidanceWorking with de-risking 
and innovative financial mechanisms and tools entails the following activities that multilevel actor
s can utilize:Identify the main financial risks in the climate investment portfolio. These may inclu
de climate impact uncertainties, political risks, low market readiness, currency risks, weak enablin
g environments, revenue risks, high upfront costs of projects, small ticket sizes etc. Layer appropr
iate de-risking tool with the specific portfolio risks. For example, credit guarantees could help ad
dress revenue or political risks, insurance could de-risk climate impact uncertainties, catalytic ca
pital could help to mitigate early-stage implementation risks, local currency financing could mitiga
te foreign exchange risk,and aggregation could help avoid low ticket sizes and high upfront costs. B
lend public finance, including concessional public or donor finance or guarantees, with private inve
stment such as loans or equities, to crowd-in private investors.Integrate these de-risking tools and
 blended finance approaches within local climate investment structures, with public institutions hel
ping coordinate and de-risk while private capital enters once risk is acceptable.While structuring d
e-risking approaches, have continuous coordination between commercial investors, development institu
tions and governments to leverage each partner’s comparative advantage and maximize impact.What is
 Blended Finance?  Blended finance is the strategic use of a limited amount of concessional public o
r philanthropic capital to mobilize additional finance, primarily from commercial and private source
s — toward sustainable development and climate goals. Rather than a single financial instrument, i
t is a structuring approach: public actors (donors, development agencies, philanthropies, and develo
pment finance institutions) absorb or share risks that would otherwise deter private investors, impr
oving a project's risk-return profile enough to attract market-rate capital. The concessional capita
l at the core of a blended structure can take several forms, including grants, concessional debt or 
equity, guarantees, and other risk-sharing facilities. These de-risking mechanisms matter most in em
erging markets and developing economies, where country-specific risk accounts for between 60 and 90 
percent of investors' risk considerations, and where about 80–90 percent of climate mitigation inv
estment is expected to come from the private sector. The overarching goal is to crowd in private mon
ey that would not have been invested otherwise, deploying only as much public subsidy as is needed t
o make a project viable. Illustrative examplesViability Fund for Cities is a donor-led, catalytic, m
ultilevel funding platform designed to help cities, especially in EMDEs, to move from isolated proje
cts to scalable, investment-ready climate portfolios by linking local investment vehicles with natio
nal, regional and international funders. It is built around local investment funds as a key vehicle 
for channelling co-finance into city-level priorities. The Fund provides limited catalytic capital t
o support a small number of “game-changing” interventions and creates a shared framework that ca
n be adapted across contexts, including in the EMDEs. Viability Fund’s theory of change is built a
round three components – align funders across public and private sectors, co-finance priority inve
stments that no single actor would back alone, and aggregate demand through procurement so that demo
nstrated solutions can move into wider deployment. The Fund aims to partner with key global funders 
and implementation actors to deploy EUR 10 million by 2030 in co-financing and another EUR 10 millio
n in aggregated demand through a focus on climate-aligned procurement.Viability Fund’s support off
erThe Viability Fund offers cities two core forms of support. First, catalytic co-financing: through
 its Co-finance pillar, the Fund will contribute roughly 10 percent of the capital needed for a loca
l investment, taking an early, credibility-anchoring position that is then topped up through nationa
l and international co-financing dialogues rather than covering the full cost itself. Second, a loca
l investment fund as a service: because a city must establish its own local climate investment fund,
 built on shared principles, to receive the Fund's co-financing, the Fund helps set up and run that 
vehicle, potentially through a fund-manager partner, so it can channel capital to local stakeholders
 such as solar, batteries, energy infrastructure and SMEs, and recycle returns into harder-to-financ
e areas like wetlands. Alongside both sits governance and coordination support: aligning funders aro
und common grant principles without pooling capital, and helping cities connect governance, investme
nt planning and procurement — reflecting the Fund's guiding logic that finance follows governance.
To know more about with the Viability Fund for cities, click here.Urban Infrastructure Insurance Fac
ility (UIIF) is a multilevel insurance-based risk pooling mechanism involving municipal governments,
 international donor agencies and city networks. It demonstrates how cities can address climate and 
disaster exposure risks and protect critical infrastructure. In the UIIF model, ten cities in Latin 
America and the Caribbean undergo risk assessments that inform tailored insurance coverage and disas
ter risk reduction measures, with individual city risks transferred into a pooled structure that red
uces premiums through economies of scale and risk sharing. After a disaster, cities can access finan
cing more quickly to rebuild infrastructure and support vulnerable residents, while also benefiting 
from better risk management, legal and technical support, and stronger relationships with financial 
institutions. UIIF follows a 7-stage roadmap, which includes profiling and selecting cities, assessi
ng risk and tailoring products, designing premium subsidies, tendering the insurance solution, and d
isbursing the subsidy over time.To know more about UIIF, click here. InfraCredit Nigeria is a strong
 example of how a local credit-enhancement facility can unlock domestic capital for infrastructure. 
Established in 2017 through a partnership between PIDG, GuarantCo and the Nigeria Sovereign Investme
nt Authority, InfraCredit provides NGN-denominated guarantees that improve the credit quality of loc
al-currency debt instruments and help projects access longer-tenor finance from institutional invest
ors such as pension funds, insurers and banks that would otherwise not invest. By end-2024, it had g
uaranteed 24 transactions mobilising over NGN 200 billion in private investment, supported nearly NG
N 150 billion in bond issuances, and helped first-time issuers such as North South Power access the 
domestic capital market. InfraCredit’s portfolio spans projects in Abuja, Lagos, Ondo, Imo, Abia, 
Cross River, Enugu, Bayelsa, Ado Ekiti and Victoria Island, including solar mini-grids, embedded pow
er, housing, telecoms, a ring road and industrial infrastructure, showing how a national credit-enha
ncement vehicle can channel finance into a wide range of place-based investments.The model has also 
been replicated beyond Nigeria through sister facilities in Pakistan, Kenya and Cambodia, with addit
ional markets including Vietnam, Ghana and Francophone West Africa under development or review.To kn
ow more about InfraCredit Nigeria, click here. Kommuninvest is a locally led Swedish municipal aggre
gation mechanism that pools borrowing demand from municipalities and regions, giving them access to 
capital on more favourable terms. It raises money in the market and on-lends it to its members, oper
ating as a lending-only institution rather than a grant fund or equity vehicle. The model is backed 
by a joint guarantee from its 282 municipal and 15 regional members, which helps de-risk lending and
 lower borrowing costs. In 2025, Kommuninvest’s total lending reached SEK 563.9 billion, showing t
he scale that pooled municipal finance can achieve.To know more about Kommuninvest, click here. Tran
sferability considerationsMatch the financial mechanisms and tools to legal and regulatory condition
s, capacities of multilevel actors, risk-return profiles of projects and market maturity. Catalytic 
funding could be most effective in low-capacity contexts that require initial upfront capital to dem
onstrate implementation capabilities to crowd in additional finance. Insurance and risk pooling are 
most transferable where climate-disaster exposure is the main challenge to fiscal resilience; local-
currency guarantees fit contexts with a bankable portfolio, where the main constraint is credit qual
ity and investor confidence; pooled borrowing works where municipalities already have a shared finan
cing base and want lower-cost market access or have small ticket sizes and limited creditworthiness 
to access the market individually. Replication works best when a trusted intermediary can hold the m
andate, coordinate actors and manage risk. For example, Viable Cities plays that coordinating role f
or the Viability fund, linking it with EU grants opportunities, local trust funds, systems demonstra
tors etc and the wider multilateral initiatives. Similarly, ICLEI and PIDG play the coordinating, im
plementation or capacity building roles for UIIF and InfraCredit.Adopt a phased approach for transfe
rability in lower-capacity contexts. UIIFs’ seven-stage roadmap shows that de-risking instruments 
are more transferable when they are introduced step-by-step, giving cities and parters time to align
 data, governance and build capacities progressively. Similarly, Viability Fund also plans to adopt 
a phased approach, focusing on a few high potential projects, cities and partnerships to demonstrate
 early success and help inspire other actors to replicate the model. Embed the tools within existing
 domestic governance systems, portfolios, investors and financial structures. InfraCredit works well
 when anchored in a sovereign institution and domestic capital markets to mobilize local institution
al investors which would benefit from local currency guarantees. Kommuninvest works well because it 
is owned jointly by municipalities and is tied to their joint guarantees. Viability fund similarly l
ooks to invest in local investment structures from the outset to maximize the impact of its mobilize
d funds. Enabling ConditionsA clear risk profile and a portfolio of investable projects. These tools
 work best when cities can identify whether the main constraint is credit risk, disaster exposure, f
oreign exchange risk or early-stage delivery risk, and when there is already a project portfolio tha
t can absorb guarantees, insurance or blended finance.A legal and regulatory setup that allows the i
nstrument to be deployed. The tools have to align with the regulations for borrowing, guarantees, su
bsidies, or pooled finance, and public actors need enough budget authority to commit long-term resou
rces to investment portfolios. Financial structures to absorb capital and integrate innovative finan
cial mechanisms. In contexts where local balance sheets are not strong enough, investment vehicles, 
like SPVs could be used to integrate mechanisms like aggregation and blended finance. Risk-bearing c
apital and counterparties willing to participate. De-risking tools will need first-loss or catalytic
 capital, a financing partner, and investors prepared to take exposure once risk is reduced. That is
 visible in KfW/BMZ backing UIIF premiums, and PIDG and NSIA backing InfraCredit to crowd in institu
tional investors. 5.3. Collaborative Portfolio Implementation EnvironmentsOverviewWhat it is: A coll
aborative portfolio implementation environment is a place-based setup where public, private and civi
c actors jointly implement, test and adapt a portfolio of mutually reinforcing interventions around 
a shared transition mission. These place-based initiatives go beyond individual pilots or project-le
vel coordination activities. Instead, they create a shared, ongoing environment where governance, fi
nance, procurement, regulations, organizational cultures and technologies are aligned around a commo
n mission, such as climate action. These implementation environments help generate the evidence, par
tnerships and institutional changes needed to move successful interventions toward investment and sc
ale.Why it is important: Developing a portfolio and the governance and finance arrangements around i
t is not sufficient on its own; climate portfolios also need collaborative implementation environmen
ts where public, private and civic actors can jointly contribute, deliver, learn and adapt. Without 
that environment, portfolios can fragment into isolated projects, learning is harder to share, and t
he system conditions needed for scale do not change.Key actors: City and subnational governments, re
levant national ministries and agencies, utilities and infrastructure owners, property owners and de
velopers, businesses and solution providers, financiers and investors, procurement actors, academia 
and civil-societyImplementation guidanceThe below actions could help create collaborative portfolio 
environments. Anchor implementation in a locally relevant mission and system boundary. Connect it to
 the city’s climate/investment priorities and, where possible, national climate priorities, rather
 than starting with a technology or individual project.Map the system, actors, structural barriers a
nd opportunities before selecting solutions. This is important because the system demonstrator exper
ience showed that starting with existing solutions often reproduces incremental pilots rather than c
reating space for more transformative approaches.Start with a real local testbed where the portfolio
 can be implemented against actual users, assets and constraints. It should be bounded enough to man
age but expansive enough to generate evidence for scale and expose the governance, infrastructure or
 market challenges to overcome. Convene the delivery ecosystem and keep it aligned through continuou
s orchestration. While local governments could anchor the portfolio implementation process, it also 
needs higher tiers of governments, utilities, property owners, developers, investors and community a
ctors, with continuous dialogue and coordination to maintain momentum and identify key implementatio
n challenges. A dedicated orchestration function is also needed to maintain alignment across the por
tfolio, bring in relevant actors as implementation needs evolve, resolve bottlenecks, capture learni
ng and sustain momentum toward the shared mission.Implement the portfolio as one coherent system of 
mutually reinforcing intervention, not a set of separate projects. The portfolio should connect gove
rnance, finance, procurement, regulation, behaviour and technology so that the combined effect shift
s the system, not just individual parts of it. Not every intervention needs to be commercially inves
tible; the portfolio can generate investible pipelines as learning progresses.Use implementation to 
generate evidence that “de-risks” policy and investment and enables scale-up. Track what changes
 in regulation, costs, technical performance, institutional arrangements, behaviour and business mod
els—not simply whether an individual technology works.Illustrative examplesSystem Demonstrators pr
ovide implementation environments that put investible portfolios into on-ground local testbeds where
 public, private and civic actors jointly shape the implementation, exchange learnings and adapt as 
needed. Rather than a project-by-project implementation approach, the demonstrators create a systemi
c implementation environment around a shared mission and a coordinated portfolio of investments, wit
h continuous orchestration around governance, finance, procurement, infrastructure, regulations, beh
aviors and technology. Key examples of System Demonstrator implementation are highlighted below: CoA
ction Lund shows how a city-led system demonstrator can orchestrate a complex implementation ecosyst
em around a shared mission of climate neutrality by 2030. In Brunnshög, the municipality brought to
gether infrastructure providers, employers, property owners, universities and solution providers to 
deliver more than 40 coordinated activities across mobility and energy, with funding kept flexible s
o that resources can shift toward the most promising models as learning emerges. One major “game c
hanger” is EnergyNet, a decentralised local electricity network that enables buildings, vehicles a
nd local energy resources to share renewable electricity.  By testing EnergyNet on ground, CoAction 
Lund has surfaced regulatory and market barriers around grid codes, data-sharing and local markets, 
helping inform the adjustments needed for scale and mainstream distributed energy systems in cities 
facing increasing electrification demands and grid constraints. Finally, a shared evaluation plan, b
ased on agreed indicators, tracks both activities and system‑level outcomes, feeding into regular 
reflection and learning cycles. EnergyNet’s successful demonstration has led to the Viability Fund
 for Cities identifying its expansion to other cities as a key investment opportunity,   To know mor
e about CoAction Lund, click here. To know more about EnergyNet, click here. Bristol Thriving Places
 demonstrates how a system demonstrator can overcome a regulatory bottleneck into to implement infra
structure and scale through multilevel collaboration, including with the national government. In Bri
stol, the challenge was affordable, zero-carbon housing on small brownfield sites that conventional 
development treated as unviable; the city, working through Bristol City Council and the Bristol Hous
ing Festival, convened a consortium led by social housing developer EDAROTH, together with housing a
ssociations, regeneration developer Igloo, energy, and digital infrastructure providers, government 
agencies, a private ‘gov-tech’ firm and research partners to deliver a portfolio of net-zero soc
ial homes, a multi-capital value toolkit, a policy and regulation discovery stream and a digital twi
n. The demonstrator’s key move was site aggregation: by treating many small council-owned sites as
 one programme, Bristol created the scale needed for delivery, prompted the council to review its tr
easury strategy to enable programme-level appraisal, and secured a development agreement of around �
�10 million through an existing national procurement framework. The model then fed into the UK gover
nment’s Small Sites Aggregator, a national programme launched by the Ministry of Housing, Communit
ies and Local Government with private and public partners and an ambition of enabling 10,000 social 
rent homes a year.Click here to know more about Bristol Thriving PlacesGreen Routes, Bogotá demonst
rates how a system demonstrator can build a collaborative implementation environment around a shared
 evidence base. In Bogotá, the challenge was to coordinate thousands of freight operators in a city
wide logistics system, so the demonstrator brought freight operators, shippers and public agencies t
ogether through the Urban Logistics Network, led by the city’s Secretariat of Mobility and working
 with the Secretariat of Environment. As part of the implementation, Green Routes, a consortium of f
our technology companies, developed a real-time routing platform, which is part of an interconnected
 portfolio or related actions, including emissions labelling, circulation rules, loading and unloadi
ng investments, sustainable driving guidelines and a proposed district freight fund. The platform’
s key contribution is the negotiated data-sharing arrangement, which would give the city the evidenc
e it needs to plan freight more effectively, while also helping operators optimise routes and costs.
 The next steps for this systems demonstrator are to develop business models and sustainable revenue
 streams. Click here to know more about Green Routes. Stockholm’s STOLT system demonstrator is adv
ancing the city’s ambition for an emission-free inner city by 2030 by using the introduction of a 
Class 3 Environmental Zone and the Urban Environment Zone in Gamla Stan as strategic windows of oppo
rtunity for wider transport-system transformation. Rather than testing a single solution, STOLT coor
dinates a broad ecosystem of city departments, businesses, research and innovation actors, infrastru
cture stakeholders and civil society around a portfolio that includes stakeholder dialogue, fossil-f
ree transport procurement, electrified construction, off-peak logistics and emerging concepts such a
s co-loading hubs. This coordination is particularly significant in Stockholm’s complex institutio
nal setting – the demonstrator has succeeded in working across municipal departments and external 
stakeholders through recurring coordination, shared portfolio oversight and continuous adaptation. T
he result is not only a set of demonstrations, but an implementation environment that helps maintain
 a common direction, surface regulatory and operational bottlenecks, and connect learning across act
ivities so that successful approaches can be institutionalized and replicated beyond the original te
stbeds.Click here to know more about STOLT. Makindye Ssabagabo’s Green Community Cities demonstrat
or brings together the municipality, UN-Habitat, Viable Cities and an international consortium worki
ng across urban planning, low-carbon construction, recycled building materials, organic-waste proces
sing, water systems and finance to address affordable housing as a wider urban system. The model com
bined modular and incremental housing, circular-economy enterprises, renewable energy, water-saving 
technologies, skills development and local employment, supported through a proposed blend of grants,
 concessional capital, private investment, microfinance and cross-subsidisation between market-rate 
and affordable housing. Experience from the Climate Smart Cities Challenge also surfaced an importan
t implementation challenge – internationally assembled solution teams were more effective where th
ey were strongly anchored in local actors and institutions, and that weaker local collaboration and 
national-local connections made implementation and scaling more difficult in cases such as Makindye 
than in more institutionally mature settings. The example therefore shows both the value of bringing
 diverse capabilities into a shared implementation portfolio and the importance of ensuring that orc
hestration is rooted in institutions with sufficient local mandate, relationships and capacity.CCFLA
 Local Hubs show how a collaborative implementation environment can be built around shared geographi
es and climate action priorities. The hubs leverage CCFLA’s membership network to bridge the deman
d-supply gap for urban climate investment by engaging local and global members across the project fu
ll value chain, from research and convening to matchmaking and implementation support. Central Asia 
Local Hub is a collaborative multilevel implementation environment that helped central Asian cities 
to move from concepts to project preparation and financing. The Hub brought together 25 local govern
ments, 10 national agencies and partners such as the Gap Fund and FELICITY II (project preparation f
acilities) around a shared focus on preparing projects for buildings’ decarbonization in Kazakhsta
n and Uzbekistan. To this end, the Hub organized the high-level Tashkent forum, which convened aroun
d 140 participants. This included expert-facilitated breakout sessions, where city officials develop
ed project ideas and filled them into the Gap Fund’s Expression of Interest templates. The Hub als
o helped connect GCoM’s early-stage project origination work with FELICITY II and the Gap Fund, wh
ile obtaining financing commitments and agreements from international financiers such as the Europea
n Investment Bank and the Green Climate Fund alongside providing them with a clearer view of an emer
ging portfolio of building retrofit projects. CCFLA’s Brazil Local Hub works as a place-based impl
ementation platform that brings together 50 local, national and global partners to help cities facin
g floods, droughts and infrastructure gaps move from fragmented demand to more coordinated urban cli
mate action. Rather than operating as a stand-alone convening effort, it is built around two impleme
ntation-oriented initiatives: a community-of-practice that aligns actors and accelerates implementat
ion, and the PCVR Project Bank, co-developed with Brazil’s Ministry of the Environment, which maps
 subnational urban projects at different stages so they can be matched more effectively with technic
al assistance, funding and finance.Click here to know more about CCFLA Local HubsCITIIS 2.0 (City In
vestments to Innovate, Integrate and Sustain) in India shows how a national programme can create a c
ollaborative portfolio environment that helps cities to implement their climate-related project port
folios. Conceived by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs with the French Development Agency, K
fW, the European Union and the National Institute of Urban Affairs (NIUA), the programme supports up
 to 18 competitively selected city projects focused on circular economy and integrated waste managem
ent, while also backing state-level climate action and national-level institutional strengthening. T
he programme is coordinated through a PMU at NIUA, which the operational guidelines say is responsib
le for overall management and support on project management, environmental and social safeguards, mo
nitoring and evaluation, knowledge capitalisation, and communications and outreach. Selected cities 
are supported by domestic experts and a pool of international mentors and transversal experts, with 
domestic experts providing day-to-day assistance and regular on-site missions. Governance of CITIIS 
is reinforced through a jury and an Apex Committee for final selection and periodic review, helping 
connect funding decisions to delivery capacity and accountability. Click here to know more about CIT
IIS. Transferability considerationsTransfer the core functions of implementation environments, while
 keeping the institutional form adaptable. The transferable core is a defined local system or place,
 a shared mission, system mapping, a portfolio approach, continuous orchestration, learning and path
ways to finance and scale. The institution leading these functions should reflect the governance con
text.Keep implementation locally grounded. Deep transition challenges cannot be solved by externally
 assembled consortia alone. Local actors with knowledge, mandate, relationships and implementation c
apacity should anchor the process, while external partners add specialist capabilities. The examples
 cited above defined their own local priorities, i.e., decarbonization in Lund, land aggregation in 
Bristol or project preparation for low-carbon building retrofits in Central Asia. Embed implementati
on in the institution best placed to provide political mandate, coordination and continuity. Where l
ocal governments have sufficient autonomy and capacity (e.g., system demonstrators in Lund, Bristol 
and Bogota), they can anchor the process directly; where they do not, national ministries, internati
onal agencies or other intermediaries (i.e., CCFLA for Local Hubs or a national agency, NIUA, in CIT
IIS 2.0) can provide the convening power and long-term ownership needed to sustain implementation an
d scale.Funding and participation arrangements should fit the governance and institutional context. 
Whether participating members in a portfolio implementation environment have funded roles, in-kind c
ontributions or voluntary commitments will vary by fiscal capacities, partnership needs and the enab
ling environments – what matters is that the model is strong enough to sustain engagement and keep
 the implementation environment moving. For example, the Swedish system demonstrators funded all con
sortium partners while the local hubs engaged stakeholders without direct funding. Phase the impleme
ntation based on system readiness. In contexts with low readiness levels, implementation should focu
s on diagnostics, convening, mapping and coalition building (e.g., Central Asia Hub). As readiness i
ncreases, focus should shift towards investment planning, testbed selection and portfolio developmen
t (see Action 4 for guidance on these). Full implementation should be financed once the mission is c
o-owned, the coordination function is in place, stakeholders are mobilized, barriers are known and a
 portfolio is in place. Use clear, accessible language and simplify the methodology where necessary.
 The Swedish experience showed that even relatively mature cities struggled when system-demonstrator
 concepts became overly abstract or innovation-heavy. In lower-capacity contexts especially, guidanc
e should focus on practical functions and outputs rather than specialist transition terminology.Conn
ect local implementation to national systems from the beginning. Demonstrators are more likely to sc
ale when local evidence can inform national policy, funding programmes, investment priorities and fu
ture climate plans. Some System Demonstrators, e.g., in Uganda, have demonstrated that weak national
-local institutional connections can constrain scaling even when local demonstration is successful.B
uild in a pathway from implementation to scale from the outset. The model is more transferable when 
it linked from the outset to investment, procurement and replication routes. These pathways may invo
lve national governments, DFIs, PPFs or international donors, depending on the funding context and p
ortfolio readiness. For example, EnergyNet is expected to scale through the Viability Fund, Bristol 
scaled via the UK Small Sites Aggregator, and Central Asia Hub is expected to scale through project 
preparation pathways involving Gap Fund, FELICITY II, and financing pathways involving GCF and EIB.E
nabling conditionsA political mandate and co-owned decision making between public and private actors
. A dedicated coordination function or intermediary capable of holding the implementation environmen
t together, capture learnings iteratively and Reliable local data, evidence and a testbed (e.g., a c
ity) so that baseline data and observed barriers could inform implementation. Flexible and sustained
 funding for implementation and learning, including resources for orchestration and experimentation,
 not only capital expenditure on individual assets. A multilevel pathway for policy and institutiona
l learning, allowing barriers identified in the testbed to be escalated to the regional or national 
levels and successful approaches to feed into future plans, policies and investment frameworks.Credi
ble pathways to connect bankable portfolios to finance providers and market-shaping actors, includin
g governments, private developers, investors DFIs and procurement actors. 5.4. Aggregated Procuremen
t as a Market-Shaping and Industrial Transition Mechanism Overview:What it is: Aggregated and pooled
 procurement are a market-shaping and industrial transition mechanisms in which cities, alongside su
bnational and national agencies and other public and private buyers coordinate purchasing power to c
reate a stronger, aggregated demand for low-carbon and resilience-enhancing goods, services and infr
astructure. The market signal can be strengthened further if local procurement activities are aligne
d with national climate priorities. In this pathway, aggregation can mean multiple buyers coordinati
ng demand while keeping separate budgets and contracts, while pooled procurement combines demand int
o a single fund or joint tender. The mechanism can operate within a city, across municipalities, or 
vertically across city, state and national levels.Why it is needed: Subnational governments collecti
vely spend over USD 6 trillion a year on goods and services – roughly 8% of global GDP – yet thi
s leverage is fragmented across departments and not coordinated with private demand, so markets rece
ive no stable signal to invest in low-carbon materials. Procurement, when used strategically to alig
n with climate outcomes, can help create a unified, more stable demand for green and resilient infra
structure. Key actors: National public works and urban development departments or ministries, regula
tory authorities, provincial and city procurement departments, public agencies and utilities, privat
e developers, major corporate buyers, manufacturers and suppliers, standards bodiesImplementation gu
idanceUsing procurement as a market-shaping and industrial transition mechanism entails the followin
g activities: Start with a clear climate-related procurement priority and the public, private and mu
nicipal buyers that can shape demand together. Choose an appropriate procurement model (e.g., as dem
and aggregation, pooled tenders), jurisdiction (e.g., single or multiple cities) and participating e
ntities (governments, private actors etc.).Agree common procurement specifications and test market a
ppetite through early engagements with manufactures, suppliers, developers and construction professi
onals. For easier implementation, back the procurement model with finance and governance, including 
budget approvals, clear decision-making structures and enabling support from national governments, D
FIs or technical partnersMonitor and evaluate the procurement process and feed learnings back into s
ubsequent procurement cycles to shape the market over time. This could include monitoring emissions,
 costs, resilience-related outcomes, governance or budgetary challenges etc. Illustrative examples: 
First Mover Cities Cohort is being developed as a dialogue series by the First Movers Coalition, Wor
ld Economic Forum. The cohort will bring together city representatives, private actors, and other pa
rtners to discuss green procurement governance, tender design, and how to turn fragmented demand int
o clearer market signals. The cohort is engaging cities such as Stockholm, Seattle and San Francisco
, drawing on examples like Stockholm’s tender-based incentives and Zurich’s material-based manda
te to show how procurement rules can shift markets for lower-carbon materials, bring public and priv
ate actors to coordinate as part of a multistakeholder process. Click here to know more about First 
Mover Coalition. C40 Clean Construction Accelerator shows how city action can move beyond municipal 
projects and help reshape the wider construction market. It is an initiative that brings together ei
ght cities to help transform the building and construction industry. In the accelerator, mayors comm
it to reusing and retrofitting existing buildings first, leading by example through municipal procur
ement, demanding transparency through whole-life carbon assessments, building joint roadmaps with st
akeholders, approving at least one net-zero flagship project, assessing resilience impacts, and advo
cating for action at national and higher levels. These commitments translating into practice – cit
ies are using procurement to push whole-life cycle assessments and low-carbon materials, coordinatin
g across departments, working with private-sector partners such as the North American Electric Const
ruction Coalition, and pressing national governments to remove policy barriers.Click here to know mo
re about the Accelerator.RAMCC Trust Fund, Argentina demonstrates how a horizontally coordinated poo
led procurement vehicles, coordinated horizontally (i.e., between local governments), can consolidat
e a fragmented municipal demand into a strong market signal. RAMCC is a coalition of 270 municipalit
ies, and the Trust Fund, established by RAMCC in 2018, helps participating municipalities to finance
 and deliver projects in their climate action plan by procuring suited climate-smart technologies at
 lower costs. Each participating municipality is a Trustee and is represented by its mayor in the As
sembly of Mayors – a forum for Trustees to set out their project implementation priorities and sha
re progress. The Assembly also elects the executive committee, the Mayor City Council, comprising a 
group of 5 mayors (one president and four vice presidents), which provides strategic oversight for t
he Trust’s financing activities each year. A third body, the Executive Secretariat, provides Trust
ees with technical support to develop climate plans, undertake technical studies, and develop financ
ing proposals. Municipalities approve budgets, pool and allocate funds. The Mayor City Council issue
s pooled tenders, award contracts and pays technology suppliers. The Trust Fund has initially focuse
d on LED lighting procurement, achieving economies of scale and financial savings and delivering mea
surable emissions, energy savings. Click here to know more about the Trust Fund. The Grand Challenge
, India is an example of a vertically coordinated (i.e., between multiple levels of government) pool
ed procurement model for urban green transport – a capital-intensive sector. The model aimed to sc
ale up the deployment of e-buses in India and support the transition to low-emissions fleets. Led by
 Convergence Energy Service Limited (CESL) under the Ministry of Power, and supported by TUMI E-bus 
Mission, the model pooled demand from multiple cities for e-buses, reduced transaction costs through
 a single tendering process and used subsidies from the national government, with some state contrib
utions as well. CESL first invited cities to estimate demand and share route, depot and charging inf
ormation, then consolidated those inputs into a standardized pooled tender. Before issuing the procu
rement, CESL also consulted OEMs through informal discussions and an initial expression of interest,
 which helped it test market appetite and adjust the tender design. The tender was then split into f
ive lots with different technical specifications, and bids were selected based on the lowest cost pe
r kilometre. The model relied on a gross cost contract and a mobility-as-a-service structure where p
rivate operators own and run the e-buses and charging infrastructure for 12 years, after which they 
transfer the assets to cities. This helped shift the upfront costs away from cities and suppliers wh
ile helping scale a new market for electric buses.Click here to know more about the Grand Challenge.
 Intra-city aggregated procurement in Zurich demonstrates how a city government can leverage its reg
ulatory mandates and purchasing power to aggregate demand from public and private sectors within its
 jurisdiction and create a market for low-carbon infrastructure. In 2002, the city began with a pilo
t showing that a new school could use 80 percent recycled aggregates in concrete, then introduced a 
25 percent minimum requirement for recycled aggregates in concrete for new public buildings in 2005 
and later tightened its procurement in 2013 to require low-carbon cement as well. Over time, this pu
blic procurement approach, together with revisions to Swiss standards and active engagement with loc
al producers, helped create a local market for recycled concrete that later spread into the private 
sector. As a result, 90% of public concrete used in the city is now recycled (up to 50% recycled agg
regates), and between 2016-21, the city’s concrete-related CO₂ emissions were reduced by 25–30
% (7,430 tonnes CO₂ emissions saved). Zurich’s procurement policy succeeded in creating a market
 for recycled concrete that was later spread to the private market, helping aggregate the city-wide 
demand towards low-emissions infrastructure.  Click here to know more about Zurich’s aggregated pr
ocurement. Transferability considerationsUse the procurement model that fits the capacity and govern
ance context. This may be a trust fund with built-in governance, a nationally coordinated tender, or
 a city-level mandate; the transferable core is the combination of political mandate, technical supp
ort, and clear criteria for aggregating demand.Choose an appropriate procurement jurisdiction based 
on capacities and governance arrangements. Where cities have strong procurement authority and large 
infrastructure pipelines, intra-city aggregation can shape markets within one jurisdiction. Where ca
pacities or enabling conditions are weaker at the municipal level, pooling between cities can work, 
but it usually needs a national intermediary or coordinator to standardize and hold the process toge
ther, as in RAMCC and India’s Grand Challenge.Adapt the procurement objectives based on national c
limate priorities. For example, cities can focus on procurement models for low-carbon construction m
aterials or e-buses where national priorities include renewable energy and decarbonization, so the m
arket signal reinforces the wider policy direction.Enabling conditionsClear procurement authority to
 set procurement rules, define award criteria and, where relevant, coordinate across departments or 
buyers. Multilevel coordination capabilities, especially with higher levels of government and the pr
ivate actors to implement the procurement modelsEnabling regulations, procurement frameworks and fin
ancing or technical support at the national and subnational levelsTechnical capacity within subnatio
nal or local governments to design, evaluate and monitor climate-aligned tendersEarly and continuous
 market engagement to assess readiness of suppliers, manufacturers and other industry actors.Recomme
ndations for actors: national governments, cities and international partnersAction 6: Learn, Strengt
hen Capacities and ScaleThis action includes guidance for national and city governments to scale and
 enhance multilevel climate investment systems and build capacities by leveraging external partnersh
ips that provide access to finance, technical assistance, and implementation guidance.Systems Logic:
 Long-term implementation of climate action requires partnerships with external actors for learning,
 strengthening capacities and scaling multilevel investment. Peer learning networks and capacity-bui
lding programs can strengthen implementation capabilities, leadership and continuous learning, while
 strategic partnerships across governments, MDBs, DFIs, financial institutions, project developers a
nd implementation actors can improve access to technical assistance, financing and implementation su
pport.Action Pathways: 6.1. Capacity Building, Peer Learning and NetworkingOverview: Capacity buildi
ng and networking initiatives help national, subnational and city governments to institutionalise kn
owledge exchange and develop technical competencies. These initiatives can include peer-to-peer exch
ange between cities, training and academy programmes to build technical capacities within municipal 
administrations and multi-stakeholder coalitions that convene public and private actors around share
d standards and learning. These initiatives are usually implemented through partnerships with nation
al or subnational governments, city networks, technical-assistance providers, and development financ
e institutions. The key objective is the transfer and retention of capacities, enabling cities to pr
epare bankable climate portfolios and to replicate and scale future investments beyond the period of
 external support. Implementation Guidance: Governments can implement capacity building and networki
ng Partner with city networks, academia and communities of practice to convene peer learning, traini
ng and practitioner exchanges across local and subnational governments around shared implementation 
challengesAdapt content and engagement formats to different contexts, including language, culture an
d institutional capacity.Work with partners to translate experiences and learnings into practical gu
idance, templates and repeatable methods and feed lessons back to national and subnational governanc
e structuresKey actors: national, subnational and city governments, alongside city networks, technic
al-assistance providers and DFIs/MDBs.Illustrative examplesCAFE (City Academy on Finance and Equity)
 was developed by the C40 Cities Finance Facility to equip city officials with the practical tools n
eeded to plan and finance equitable infrastructure projects. The academy was delivered in three part
s to mid- and senior-level officials from Global South cities, with learning objectives focused on u
nderstanding and assessing financing instruments, embedding equity and inclusion across planning, de
velopment and implementation, and linking finance to business models. Through its workshops and a wo
rkbook, CAFE offers a structured learning process that helps cities improve project preparation, str
engthen cross-departmental understanding and design investments that are both finance-ready and equi
ty-aware. Click here to know more about CAFÉ. UrbanShift Academies offer a peer-learning platform f
or cities working on integrated urban development. UrbanShift is a “one-stop” platform bringing 
together global, national and local champions, while offering a suite of capacity-building activitie
s that includes a city academy, Finance academies, national dialogues and urban labs. The platform c
ombines these learning activities with on-the-ground local projects, so cities can exchange experien
ce, build strategic planning skills, and apply what they learn to integrated solutions in areas such
 as transport, housing, green infrastructure and waste. Click here to know more about UrbanShift. Th
e Cities Climate Finance Leadership Alliance (CCFLA) provides a multi-level, multi-stakeholder space
 for practitioners to connect, exchange experience and build networks around urban climate finance. 
Through its thematic Action Groups, CCFLA members can convene around priority topics such as project
 preparation, adaptation finance, enabling environments, private finance and other emerging financin
g challenges, sharing practical approaches and identifying opportunities for collaboration. Particip
ation is open across CCFLA’s diverse membership, including national governments, city networks and
 subnational actors, demand- and supply-side finance organizations, and expert and technical organiz
ations, helping connect perspectives across levels of government and across the climate finance ecos
ystem.Actions to enable participation of EMDE cities in capacity building and peer learning workshop
sNational governments and city networks should create clear, low-barrier entry points to these progr
ammes and co-finance participation for under-resourced cities, so EMDE cities can both benefit from 
and contribute to peer networks. A priority is making tools and processes more accessible across lan
guages and institutional contexts, including through:Cover travel, accommodation, and staff time, so
 participation is feasible for under-resourced cities.Offer hybrid and asynchronous options with dow
nloadable/offline materials, for cities with weaker connectivityPair peer learning with follow-on te
chnical assistance or mentoring, so cities can apply what they learn rather than just attend.Use loc
al platforms (e.g., CCFLA Local Hubs) or city networks as delivery partners, so convening is closer 
to cities and less dependent on a single central venue.Organize workshops and events in local langua
ges, wherever possible, so that guidance is accessible for city officials. 6.2. Strategic Partnershi
ps for Finance Mobilization and Implementation at ScaleOverviewWhat it is: Strategic partnership mec
hanisms set out the resources available to national and city governments for strengthening partnersh
ips with development finance institutions, climate funds, philanthropic actors and technical-assista
nce providers, to access climate-related implementation support. Why it is needed: Financing and imp
lementation of multilevel climate action are often held back by limited project pipelines and invest
ment planning, capacity gaps, and weak subnational creditworthiness, alongside a shortage of financi
al instruments suited to city-level projects. Strategic partnerships can help close these gaps by pr
oviding access to project preparation, technical assistance, blended finance, guarantees and investo
r matchmaking. Illustrative examplesGlobal Platform for Sustainable Cities (GPSC) is a World Bank–
led global knowledge and partnership platform, supported by the Global Environment Facility, which c
onnects cities with knowledge, partners and practical tools to help them design and implement integr
ated urban solutions. Through this platform, city leaders are supported to advance projects that cut
 emissions, protect biodiversity, create jobs and economic opportunities, strengthen resilience to c
limate and urban risks, and improve quality of life for residents. Click here to know more about GSP
C. UN-Habitat RISE UP is a flagship implementation partnership that is coordinated through UN-Habita
t’s headquarters, regional, national and local offices, mobilizing significant investments to help
 cities effectively adapt to climate change. The program has mobilized more than USD150 million thro
ugh partnerships with several organizations including the Adaptation Fund, Green Climate Fund and bi
lateral funding agencies such as Sida. The program is active in nearly 30 countries, making it a str
ong example of a global platform that supports city-level adaptation finance through partnerships wi
th climate funds. Click here to know more about RISE UP. UNEP Beat the Heat Initiative, under the Gl
obal Cooling Pledge is a multilevel coalition for urban heat action that brings cities, countries an
d partners together around a shared implementation challenge, with 250 cities joining the call to ac
tion and examples focused on heat action planning, nature-based solutions and cooling. Beat the Heat
 links city action to national and global cooling commitments. The initiative is a collective effort
 to localize the Global Cooling Pledge, which has 75 country signatories, and to support cities and 
sub-national actors through heat-risk assessments, passive and nature-based cooling, planning, and p
ublic procurement. The 50@50 activation then adds the city-to-city layer: more than 50 cities are sh
aring practical approaches, stress-testing systems and accelerating action together, with UNEP, C40 
Cities and the City of Paris providing support and institutional anchoring through the wider Cool Co
alition / EPIC architecture. Click here to know more about Beat the Heat. How to enable partnerships
: To enable such partnerships, national, subnational or local governments can undertake the followin
g actions: Start with the implementation bottleneck. Clarify whether the main constraint is capacity
, project preparation, de-risking, financing, or delivery support; that determines whether the right
 entry point is a city network, an MDB/DFI, a climate fund, a technical assistance facility, or a ph
ilanthropic partner.Based on the support required, identify the key partner institution. Early engag
ement typically requires knowledge exchange and capacity building; program readiness requires projec
t preparation support; investment programming needs grants and technical assistance TA; financing ne
eds blended or concessional instruments and guarantees; and implementation needs ongoing coordinatio
n, learning and delivery support.Bring in the relevant public counterpart early. For partnerships wi
th MDBs and DFIs, connect through finance ministries, planning ministries or the national platform s
ecretariat so the proposal fits country priorities, governance arrangements and the partner’s oper
ating criteria.Use intermediaries to connect cities to support. City networks, national task forces,
 subnational technical working groups and country-platform secretariats can help broker access to fi
nance institutions, TA providers and climate funds, especially where cities cannot engage directly. 
Prepare a clear concept note or project brief that sets out the urban priority, the delivery gap, th
e support needed, and how finance, TA and implementation roles will be combined across actors.Part I
I: COUNTRY MULTILEVEL GOVERNANCE JOURNEYSThis part of the Toolkit will complement Part I by showcasi
ng how different multilevel governance ‘Actions’ and their ‘Action Pathways’ interact in pra
ctice across country contexts. The Country Journeys will include deep dive analysis grounded in real
-world contexts, showcasing institutional relationships, learning loops, implementation cycles, acco
untability mechanisms, and enabling conditions required to implement and scale Action Pathways acros
s different countries. The Country Journeys will also seek to identify institutional friction points
, governance bottlenecks along with challenges and lessons learnt from implementation experiences. C
ountry Journeys are intended not only to document implementation approaches, but also to showcase ho
w cities, regions and national governments have co-developed practical solutions that can inform oth
er CHAMP countries.This part of the Toolkit will have a special focus on the interactions between in
stitutions and programs, governance capabilities, intermediary functions, financing and implementati
on platforms, and feedback loops required to sustain long-term climate investment. Initial Country J
ourneys will focus on Sweden, drawing on its experience with multilevel climate governance and imple
mentation processes and capabilities. In subsequent phases, the Toolkit may also include the journey
s of Brazil and Morocco, reflecting CHAMP's ongoing engagement, especially the presence of the CHAMP
 Finance Working Group in both countries. This provides a strong foundation for documenting their mu
ltilevel governance journeys while also supporting the contextualization and dissemination of the To
olkit within their national settings.Sweden Deep DiveThe Sweden deep dive will serve as the flagship
 reference model for operationalizing multilevel climate governance under CHAMP, showing how differe
nt multilevel governance functions have operated together over time, illustrating how Climate City C
ontracts, intermediary coordination, procurement, financing and implementation ecosystems have funct
ioned together operationally over time. It will also include the orchestration logic, including wher
e successes as well as institutional bottlenecks, coordination frictions, implementation constraints
 and governance trade-offs have emerged. Capturing these dynamics will help position the Toolkit as 
a more operationally realistic and internationally transferable resource, particularly for countries
 navigating evolving multilevel governance systems under different institutional conditions.OutlineT
he Swedish ContextThis section will provide contextual background on the mission-oriented nature of 
Sweden’s journey to multilevel governance. This includes a narrative on political, institutional, 
fiscal and governance conditions that shaped the evolution of Sweden’s multilevel climate governan
ce and implementation ecosystem. The purpose of this section will be to help the CHAMP ecosystem bet
ter understand why specific multilevel governance, financing and implementation mechanisms emerged i
n Sweden, how they evolved over time, and which enabling conditions, institutional capacities and co
ordination cultures helped shape their development. Sweden’s Multilevel Climate Governance Model: 
Key Mechanisms, Successes and ChallengesThis section will include the evolution of the following imp
lementation approaches that could be further developed together with CHAMP partners in different con
texts: [Placeholder: Sweden’s governance mapping diagram, including institutional interactions, im
plementation workflows, intermediary functions and financing relationships]Viable Cities as a nation
al platformClimate City Contracts, the document, the process and the coordination functionSamordning
sfunktionenSystem DemonstratorsLocal Climate Investment Frameworks [EnergyNet use case included]Viab
ility Fund for CitiesAggregated Procurement and market-shaping approachesCapaCITIESCities2030Buildin
g on these, this section will also include the orchestration logic of the Swedish model: How differe
nt implementation approaches interact operationallyHow governance and financing mechanisms evolveWhe
re institutional coordination and implementation feedback loops emerge Where institutional frictions
, challenges and trade-offs emergeWhat enabling conditions support the transferability of these path
ways and support systemic transformation in contexts with limited institutional capacities6. Propose
d Roles and Responsibilities for Longer-Term Sustainability of the Toolkit (TBD with partners)The To
olkit’s long-term governance arrangements will need to be agreed jointly with CHAMP partners. At t
his stage, we propose two governance scenarios to support discussion with CHAMP partners. Both maint
ain the same implementation-oriented architecture while differing in institutional ownership and gov
ernance responsibilities.Governance ScenariosScenario 1: CCFLA- and Viable Cities-led ToolkitOvervie
w: CCFLA and Viable Cities jointly own, govern and maintain the Toolkit, while working closely with 
the CHAMP Secretariat and partner organizations.Potential rolesFunctionLeadSupporting stakeholdersGo
vernance and ownershipCCFLA, Viable CitiesCHAMP SecretariatContent developmentCCFLA, Viable CitiesCH
AMP partnersHosting and maintenanceCCFLA, Viable CitiesCHAMP SecretariatContent management and updat
esCCFLA, Viable CitiesCHAMP partnersOutreach and disseminationAll StakeholdersCountry-level utilizat
ionNational governments (CHAMP focal points)Subnational government representatives (via C40/GCoM)Pot
ential advantages: Builds on the organizations already leading Toolkit development, ensuring iterati
ve development and regular content updatesReduces operational burden on the CHAMP Secretariat, Lever
ages CCFLA’s expertise in urban climate finance and Viable Cities on-ground multilevel governance 
and implementation expertise and experience. Scenario 2: CHAMP Secretariat-led ToolkitOverview: The 
Toolkit becomes an institutional resource of CHAMP. CCFLA and Viable Cities transition into technica
l partners responsible for initial content development and continued expert engagement. FunctionLead
Supporting stakeholdersGovernance and ownershipCHAMP SecretariatCCFLA, Viable CitiesContent developm
entCCFLA, Viable CitiesCHAMP partnersHosting and maintenanceCHAMP SecretariatCCFLA, Viable CitiesCon
tent management and updatesCHAMP SecretariatTechnical partnersOutreach and disseminationAll Stakehol
dersCountry-level utilizationNational government representatives (CHAMP focal points)Subnational gov
ernment representatives (via C40/GCoM)Potential advantages: Positions the Toolkit as an official CHA
MP implementation resource, strengthening long-term institutional legitimacy and visibilityIntegrate
s the Toolkit into broader CHAMP coordination and engagement processesCommon elements across both sc
enariosRegardless of the governance model adopted, the Toolkit would:Be co-created with CHAMP partne
rsRemain a living resource with periodic updatesIncorporate implementation experiences from national
, subnational and city governmentsSupport continuous learning and refinement as additional country e
xperiences emergeDetailed structure for institutional roles and responsibilities1. Governance and ow
nershipGoal: Provide long-term oversight of the Toolkit, including governance arrangements, content 
management, future development and partner engagement.Required actions: Establish long-term governan
ce arrangements, including roles and responsibilities across lead and supporting partnersEstablish d
ecision-making processes for strategic direction and future developmentScenario 1 Leads: CCFLA and V
iable Cities Scenario 2 Lead: CHAMP Secretariat (WRI)2. Content developmentGoal: Develop the web-bas
ed Toolkit platform, initial content, work plan, and governance strategy, in consultations with CHAM
P secretariat and partners.Required actions: Conduct secondary research for Toolkit content developm
entConduct interviews and consultations with CHAMP partners and stakeholdersDevelop country journeys
, case studies and implementation examplesDevelop the web platform and user experience through itera
tive feedbackPrepare supporting documentation and communication materials for Toolkit launchScenario
 1 and 2 Leads: CCFLA and Viable Cities3. Platform Hosting and maintenanceGoal: Ensure the Toolkit r
emains accessible, functional and technically maintained as a long-term digital resource.Required ac
tions: Host and maintain the web-based Toolkit platform, ensuring the platform remains accessible, f
unctional and secure.Coordinate technical maintenance and platform improvementsPublish new Toolkit r
eleases and UI/UX updates Scenario 1 Leads: CCFLA and Viable CitiesScenario 2 Lead: CHAMP Secretaria
t4. Content management and updatesGoal: Maintain the relevance, quality and applicability of Toolkit
 content over time.Required actions:Manage periodic reviews and updates of Toolkit content and Actio
n Pathways to reflect evolving CHAMP priorities and partner feedbackIncorporate new country experien
ces, e.g., multilevel governance innovations, and financing and implementation approachesMaintain co
nsistency, quality and coherence across Toolkit contentScenario 1 Leads: CCFLA and Viable CitiesScen
ario 2 Lead: CHAMP Secretariat5. Outreach and disseminationGoal: Build awareness and promote uptake 
of the Toolkit across the CHAMP ecosystem.Required actions:Position the Toolkit as a practical imple
mentation resource for CHAMP.Coordinate Toolkit launch and dissemination through CHAMP engagement op
portunities, including COP31 and beyondPromote the Toolkit through partner networks, events and capa
city-building activitiesEncourage national and subnational governments and partner organizations to 
integrate the Toolkit into their programs and initiativesStrengthen coordination with complementary 
CHAMP initiatives and resources.Scenario 1 and 2 Leads: CCFLA, Viable Cities and the CHAMP Secretari
at6. Country-Level UtilizationGoal: Utilize the guidance and action pathways provided in the toolkit
 to strengthen multilevel governance, finance and investment at the country-levelRequired actions: A
pply the Toolkit guidance within national and subnational climate-related governance, finance and im
plementation processesProvide feedback on Toolkit usability, relevance, and applicability across dif
ferent governance and financing contextsContribute implementation insights, governance lessons and f
inancing innovations back into the Toolkit to support continuous refinementScenarios 1 and 2 Lead: N
ational Governments (via CHAMP focal points)Future Engagement and Consultations (subject to agreemen
t and funding)Following the development and launch of the Toolkit, its continued evolution could be 
supported through ongoing engagement with CHAMP partners, national, subnational and city governments
, and other implementation stakeholders. The scope and frequency of these activities will depend on 
the agreed governance arrangements, institutional ownership and availability of funding (see section
 6 above). Potential engagement activities may include:Periodic consultations with CHAMP partners to
 review Toolkit content, identify emerging Action Pathways, validate implementation guidance, and pr
ioritize future updates. These consultations could be organized through the CHAMP Finance Working Gr
oup and relevant partner meetings and events.Contributions from national and subnational governments
, cities and partners, coordinated through the CHAMP Secretariat (e.g. through periodic calls for co
ntributions and/or CHAMP workshops). Contributions could include implementation experiences, case st
udies, governance innovations, financing approaches and lessons learned to inform future Toolkit upd
atesAction 5: Mobilize Finance, Shape Local Markets and Deliver Investment PortfoliosThis section wi
ll include guidance and tools for national, subnational and city governments to mobilize and deploy 
catalytic funding to test and scale solutions, de-risking mechanisms to support urban climate projec
ts and shape local markets using aggregated procurement.Systems Logic: Implementing portfolios and p
ipelines often requires interconnected financing, implementation and market-shaping mechanisms opera
ting together as part of a system. Catalytic and de-risking finance mechanisms can help mobilize inv
estment, while systemic portfolio implementation environments and local climate investment structure
s and collaborative implementation environments can support coordinated delivery of investments. Pro
curement complements financing by creating credible demand conditions that allow new solutions to mo
ve from demonstrations and small-scale deployment toward wider commercial adoption. Action pathways:
5.1. Local Climate Finance Vehicles and Catalytic and Derisking MechanismsOverviewWhat it is: Local 
climate finance vehicles can be understood as a range of financing arrangements that help municipali
ties mobilize and deploy capital for climate and transition investment. This could include pooled mu
nicipal borrowing facilities, trust funds, special purpose vehicles for projects requiring off-balan
ce sheet and blended finance, green or sustainability-linked bonds etc. Their purpose is to create a
 local mechanism for cities to mobilize and deploy climate finance from multiple sources, including 
national governments, donors or private financiers. Implementation Guidance: Developing local transi
tion finance structures entails the following process that multilevel actors can utilize:Build on th
e climate investment plan and the portfolio, then match each project to the right local financing st
ructure.Use SPVs and labelled bonds for large infrastructural investments, and local trust funds for
 smaller neighbourhood or nature-based projectsArrange the financing structure in a way that the gov
ernment ring-fences, de-risks and backs the investment, while banks, institutional investors, corpor
ates or other investors provide the finance and technical assistance and additional de-risking where
 needed. Develop long-term partnerships with donors, governments, DFIs and investors to continually 
capitalize the investment vehicle/structure based on the risks, returns and investor appetite.Why it
 is important: In many contexts, the challenge in implementing local climate investments is often no
t a shortage of capital but matching it to the right portfolio. Local transition finance vehicles an
d structures can help bridge this gap by connecting portfolios with available capital and can take d
ifferent forms depending on local government capacity, governance and market conditions.Annex 1: Det
ailed Workplan and TimelineActivities and MilestonesTimelineDevelop the Toolkit storyboard Viable Ci
ties sync – Climate City ContractsDevelop the first draft of the web Toolkit platform Conduct init
ial Toolkit desk research and content mappingMilestone: Toolkit Zero Draft (prototype without finali
zed content)March - AprilDevelop the strategy first draftPrepare for advisory board discussionCCFLA 
internal review (zero draft)4–8 MayContinue developing the strategy11–15 MayViable Cities adviso
ry board – System Demonstrators advisory board meetingsCCFLA design team discussion – introducti
on to the Toolkit18-22 MayCHAMP Secretariat/partner sync - strategy and governanceViable Cities sync
: feedback on the strategy25–29 MayDevelop interview questionnairesRevise the strategy based on fe
edback1–5 JuneFinalize interview questionnairesCHAMP Steering Committee (10th June) – Olle to pr
opose the Toolkit8-12 JuneRevise Toolkit strategy15-19 JuneCHAMP Engagement – Position the Toolkit
 and showcase the prototype at LCAWInterview 1 – Viability Fund for Cities [26 June]22-26 JuneInte
rview 2: Local Climate Investments [Bjorn]Interview 3 – Climate City Contracts [Investment Plannin
g, Joint Commitments] and  Samordningsfunktionen team [intermediary coordination unit]Interview 4:  
Local Climate Investments [Numi and Matt]Revise Toolkit strategyMilestone: Toolkit Strategy with the
 outline, work plan and timelines29June-3 JulySynthesize interview insights, Begin literature review
 and content development July Interview 5: First Movers Coalition [with Daniel; 17 July]Synthesize i
nterview insights13-17 July Synthesize interview insightsContinue literature review and content deve
lopmentCPI design sync20-24 JulyContinue literature review and content development27-31 JulyDiscuss 
and invite feedback at the CHAMP FWG meeting [TBC]Synthesize workshop feedback 3-7 AugInterview 6:  
System Demonstrators and implementation ecosystems [with Olle]Synthesize interview insightsContinue 
literature review10-14 AugFinalize literature review, including governance mapping, transferability 
analysisBegin developing first draft of the toolkit integrating interviews insights and research17-2
1 AugContinue the first draft of the toolkit, integrating literature review, mapping and transferabi
lity analysis 24-28 AugFinalize the first draft Milestone: Toolkit first draft with literature revie
w, governance mapping, transferability analysis31 Aug-4 SepCCFLA internal technical reviewViable Cit
ies review7-11 SepCCFLA internal technical review [contd.]Viable Cities review [contd.]14-18 SepInte
grate review feedback21-25 SepComms reviewCHAMP Secretariat/partner sync – discuss hosting logisti
cs [TBC]28 Sep-2 OctDevelop the second draft, integrating comms feedbackMilestone: Toolkit second dr
aft5-9 OctCHAMP secretariat/partner sync – discuss second draft and remaining logistics [TBC; if n
eeded]Make final refinements to the draft [content/documentation/code etc.]OctMake final refinements
 to the draft [content/documentation/code etc].Outreach/comms materials developed [social media post
s, graphics etc.]19-23 OctPublish the Toolkit; hand over to Viable Cities Milestone: Toolkit publish
ed26-30 OctPre-COP dissemination on social mediaNovMilestone: Launch the Toolkit at COP31 [e.g. at t
he CHAMP High Level Political Dialogue]9-20 Nov