here
 to know more about 
CITIIS
. 
Transferability
 considerations
Transfer the 
core functions of 
implementation environments
, while keeping 
the institutional form
 adaptable
.
 The transferable core is a defined local system or place, a shared mission, system mapping, a portfolio approach, continuous orchestration, learning and pathways to finance and scale. The institution leading these functions should reflect the governance context.
Keep implementation locally grounded.
 Deep transition challenges cannot be solved by externally assembled consortia alone. Local actors with knowledge, mandate, relationships and implementation capacity should anchor the process, while external partners add specialist capabilities.
 The examples cited above defined their own local priorities, i.e., decarbonization in Lund, land aggregation in Bristol or project preparation for low-carbon building retrofits in Central Asia. 
Embed implementation in the institution best placed to provide political mandate, coordination and continuity.
 Where local governments have sufficient autonomy and capacity (e.g., 
system demonstrators in Lund, Bristol and Bogota)
, they can anchor the process directly; where they do not, national ministries, 
international 
agencies or 
other 
intermediaries
 (i.e., CCFLA for Local Hubs
 
or 
a national agency, NIUA,
 
in CITIIS 2.0
)
 can provide the convening power and long-term ownership needed to sustain implementation and scale.
Funding and participation arrangements should fit the governance 
and institutional 
context.
 
Whether participating members in a portfolio implementation environment have
 funded roles, in-kind 
contributions
 
or
 voluntary commitments will vary by 
fiscal capacities, partnership needs and the enabling environments
 –
 what matters is that the model is strong enough to sustain engagement and keep the implementation environment moving. 
For example, 
the Swedish system demonstrators funded all consortium partners while the local hubs 
engaged stakeholders without direct funding.
 