. 
PCVR project bank:
 The Green and Resilient Cities Program project bank is a good pipeline-coordination example because it was created as a demand-mapping tool with two functions: it gives an ecosystem overview of urban project development in Brazil and acts as a coordination platform that consolidates projects at different stages into one place, improving visibility and opening pathways to technical assistance, 
finance
 and implementation. Th
is 
makes it a strong 
example
 of how a pipeline can be 
originated, and actors can be 
coordinated 
to move the pipeline towards financing and implementation.
 
Find out more about the 
PCVR 
here
.
 
CCFLA 
Project Preparation Resource Directory
: 
The 
Directory helps subnational governments and stakeholders identify project preparation facilities that can support them in developing green and resilient infrastructure, including implementing more efficient heating and cooling systems, building renewable energy, setting up sustainable transit, or climate-proofing resilient infrastructure.
 Users can
 filter information 
by region, country, sector, project stage etc. to
 find 
the right PPFs for their project needs. 
To access the directory, click 
here
. 
NDC Partnership - 
Project Preparation Support Database:
 
It
 is a searchable database of international, regional, national, and sub-national Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs) focused on supporting the preparation of climate-aligned projects, as well as incubators and 
accelerators focused on supporting climate-aligned businesses. To learn more about this tool, 
click here
.
Box: What are Project Preparation Facilities? 
Project Preparation Facilities (PPFs) are organizations, initiatives, or institutions that support cities in developing bankable, investment-ready projects, typically from a project’s concept, design, or scoping stage up to the financial close. A PPF may provide technical and/or financial support. PPFs can provide a wide range of support depending on a project’s stage and sector. The overarching goal of PPFs is preparing bankable, or investment-ready, projects. A project is bankable, whether from public or private sources, when its risk-return profile meets investors’ criteria. Key criteria include the probability of success, sufficient estimated cash flows to cover costs and produce returns that meet investor expectations, and whether the project will be implemented by a creditworthy entity.
ICLEI and Gap Fund - 
Capacity Development Toolkit for Early-Stage Project Preparation
: 
This toolkit brings together 12 practical tools and templates developed and tested through the Gap Fund Step-Up Project, led by ICLEI with the City Climate Finance Gap Fund. Co-created with cities in Africa and South America, it helps city officials, project managers and technical partners identify capacity and data gaps, map stakeholders and risks, build basic financial models, test PPP options, apply behavioural and systems-thinking approaches, and chart a path from pre-feasibility to bankability. Each tool comes with step-by-step guidance and downloadable templates that can be adapted for local use and training.
 To access this toolkit, click 
here
. 
Urban-Act - 
Early-Stage City Climate Project Bankability Diagnostic Tool