. Depending on the governance setup, portfolio development and coordination role can sit 
within a national program or agency, regional authority, a multistakeholder body of local governments 
or external partners, such as city networks. The key is having sufficient mandate and convening power to 
continually develop and implement the portfolio. 
Portfolio 
funding
 models can vary
. Some contexts will need a donor-led or grant-led portfolio 
development
, while others 
with
 higher levels of fiscal capacity 
can use city-led, national-led or blended funding arrangements. 
The key is having funding that is sufficient to develop the portfolio from planning to investment readiness. 
Tailor outreach to PPFs to match sector priorities, country context and pipeline maturity, 
so early-stage projects are steered toward diagnostics and concept development, while more advanced pipelines are matched with structuring, de-risking and investment-read
iness
 support.
Enabling conditions: 
A clear mission, mandate and a
 coordination 
function.
 The portfolio needs a national-level 
mandate (e.g., through a national mission)
, 
alongside 
clear roles
 across levels of government
 and an intermediary team or similar 
coordination 
function to keep actors
, including governments, project developers and financiers
 coordinated, track progress and revise the portfolio as conditions change.
National-local coordination mechanisms
 that allow city-level priorities and lessons to feed into national policy, investment programmes and funding decisions
.
An investment plan or prelim
in
ary pipeline to work from,
 so the portfolio is built from agreed climate priorities across levels of government, rather than from 
siloed
 projects.
Early engagement with project preparation facilities,
 so that the portfolio and pipeline are prepared for bankability from the outset. 
Reliable data and assessment capacity.
 Governments need sufficient data and technical capacity to identify projects across levels of government, assess readiness, identify gaps and structure a coherent theory of change across the portfolio.
Action 5: 
Mobilize Finance
, Shape 
Local 