 
of levels of government
Identify innovative financing mechanisms and private sector partnerships
 to bridge 
any
 investment gaps
Illustrative examples
Climate City Contracts 
investment planning
 approach.
 The climate investment-planning component of Sweden’s Climate City Contracts 
involves four key steps: 1) develop a city-level emissions and climate risks baseline
 and make forecasts
, 2) 
identify 
climate actions that could help lower emissions and climate risks, 3) develop an implementation roadmap for identified climate actions and 4) 
identify 
which projects will be funded by public budgets and where additional financing will be needed
; map financing actors and explore innovative financing mechanisms accordingly.
 
Climate City Contract Investment Plan of the Hague
: 
The city of the Hague has the ambition to be climate-neutral in 2030. The current budget for climate and transition initiatives totals EUR 198.1 million for the period 2024-2027. The Climate Investment Plan of the Hague identifies its investment baseline and barriers, cross-references its existing municipal budget with its sectoral climate action priorities, estimates the gap between current allocations and total capital needs, and examines stakeholder shares, financing sources, implementation and investment risks and delivery arrangements. Its plan therefore connects its climate priorities with both the municipal planning and budget cycle and investment beyond the municipality.
C40 Climate Budgeting Framework
 (CBF). 
The CBF
 
helps
 cities in developing, implementing, and adopting a credible and robust climate budgeting process, setting out 
guidance
 
for the budgeting 
process and output.
 
It treats climate budgeting as a recurring governance process that connects climate action plan targets to annual or cyclical delivery plans, covers both operating and capital budgets, requires ownership by the finance function and cross-departmental teams, assigns implementation responsibilities and embeds monitoring and learning into the ordinary budget process.
 
Further guidance by C40 highlights 
how to get started on a robust and credible climate budget
. This includes securing political commitments 
from the city leadership and using the climate budget to have multilevel dialogues with the national government to support investmen
t into priority projects. 
Transferability
 considerations
Adapt to the governance context.
 Map where
 the city
 planning, budgeting and investment 
authority
 sits, and tailor the connections between local, regional and national processes accordingly.
 